Link: https://medlineplus.gov/prostatecancer.html    
                                Description: Prostate cancer is one of the most common types of cancer among American men. The risk goes up as men age. Learn about symptoms, tests, and treatment.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Prostate Cancer

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/prostatecancer.html

#  Prostate Cancer

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Symptoms
  * Diagnosis and Tests
  * Prevention and Risk Factors
  * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

  * Living With
  * Related Issues
  * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

  * Health Check Tools

### Research

  * Statistics and Research
  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Reference Desk
  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

The prostate is the gland below a man's bladder that produces fluid for semen.
Prostate cancer is common among older men. It is rare in men younger than 40.
Risk factors for developing prostate cancer include being over 65 years of
age, family history, and being African-American.

Symptoms of prostate cancer may include

  * Problems passing urine, such as pain, difficulty starting or stopping the stream, or dribbling
  * Low back pain
  * Pain with ejaculation

To diagnose prostate cancer, you doctor may do a digital rectal exam to feel
the prostate for lumps or anything unusual. You may also get a blood test for
prostate-specific antigen (PSA). These tests are also used in prostate cancer
screening, which looks for cancer before you have symptoms. If your results
are abnormal, you may need more tests, such as an ultrasound, MRI, or biopsy.

Treatment often depends on the stage of the cancer. How fast the cancer grows
and how different it is from surrounding tissue helps determine the stage. Men
with prostate cancer have many treatment options. The treatment that's best
for one man may not be best for another. The options include watchful waiting,
surgery, radiation therapy, hormone therapy, and chemotherapy. You may have a
combination of treatments.

NIH: National Cancer Institute

## Start Here

  * General Information about Prostate Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
  * Prostate Cancer (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
  * Prostate Cancer: Symptoms, Tests, and Treatment (Food and Drug Administration)
  * What is Prostate Cancer? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Symptoms

  * Prostate Cancer Symptoms (Prostate Cancer Foundation)

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Can Prostate Cancer Be Found Early? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
  * CEA Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Digital Rectal Exam (DRE) (American Society of Clinical Oncology) Also in Spanish
  * Medical Tests for Prostate Problems ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
  * MRI of the Prostate (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
  * Prostate Cancer Screening: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Prostate Ultrasound ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
  * Prostate-Specific Antigen (PSA) Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Stages of Prostate Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
  * Tumor Marker Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Ultrasound- and MRI-Guided Prostate Biopsy (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
  * Understanding Prostate Cancer: Newly Diagnosed (Prostate Cancer Foundation)

## Prevention and Risk Factors

  * Do We Know What Causes Prostate Cancer? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
  * Prostate Cancer Prevention ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

  * Drugs Approved for Prostate Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
  * Expectant Management (Watchful Waiting) and Active Surveillance for Prostate Cancer (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
  * Hormone Therapy for Prostate Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
  * PC-SPES (PDQ) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
  * Prostate Cancer (Radiation Therapy) (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
  * Prostatectomy - slideshow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Treatment Choices for Men with Early-Stage Prostate Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
  * Treatment Option Overview (Prostate Cancer) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
  * Treatment Options by Stage (Prostate Cancer) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
  * Vaccine Treatment for Prostate Cancer (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Living With

  * Preventing and Treating Prostate Cancer Spread to Bone (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
  * Side Effects of Chemotherapy (Prostate Cancer Foundation)
  * Side Effects of Hormone Therapy (Prostate Cancer Foundation)

## Related Issues

  * After Treatment: Living as a Prostate Cancer Survivor (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
  * After Treatment: Second Cancers after Prostate Cancer (American Cancer Society)
  * Bowel Dysfunction (Prostate Cancer Foundation)
  * Erectile Dysfunction (Prostate Cancer Foundation)
  * Fertility and Sexual Side Effects in People with Cancer (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
  * Urinary Dysfunction (Prostate Cancer Foundation)
  * What Prostate Cancer Survivors Need to Know about Osteoporosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases)

## Genetics

  * Genetics Home Reference: prostate cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Health Check Tools

  * Treating Localized Prostate Cancer (Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality)

## Statistics and Research

  * Advances in Prostate Cancer Research ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
  * Cancer of the Prostate ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
  * FDA Approves Apalutamide for Some Men with Prostate Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Molecular Switch Links High-Fat Diet to Prostate Cancer Metastasis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
  * Prostate Cancer FAQs (Prostate Cancer Foundation)
  * Prostate Cancer Rates by Race and Ethnicity (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Take with Food: Study Tests Lowering Dose of Prostate Cancer Drug ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
  * What Are the Key Statistics for Prostate Cancer? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
  * What's New in Prostate Cancer Research and Treatment? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Prostatic Neoplasms ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Protein may be linked to racial disparities in prostate cancer.
  * Article: Adding radiotherapy to androgen deprivation therapy in men with node-positive prostate...
  * Article: MRI-Targeted, Systematic, and Combined Biopsy for Prostate Cancer Diagnosis.
  * Prostate Cancer -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

  * About the Prostate (Prostate Cancer Foundation)
  * Prostate Cancer Foundation News (Prostate Cancer Foundation) \- PDF

## Find an Expert

  * American Cancer Society
  * Find a Cancer Doctor (American Society of Clinical Oncology)
  * Find a Radiation Oncologist (American Society for Radiation Oncology)
  * Find a Urologist (Urology Care Foundation)
  * National Cancer Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
  * Organizations That Offer Support Services ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
  * Prostate Cancer Foundation

## Patient Handouts

  * Cryotherapy for prostate cancer (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Digital rectal exam (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Gleason grading system (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Hormone therapy for prostate cancer (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Pelvic (between the hips) radiation - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Prostate brachytherapy (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Prostate cancer (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Prostate cancer - treatment (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Prostate cancer staging (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Understanding your prostate cancer risk (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Prostate Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ProstateCancer.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * After chemotherapy - discharge
  * Cryotherapy for prostate cancer
  * Digital rectal exam
  * Gleason grading system
  * Hormone therapy for prostate cancer
  * Pelvic (between the hips) radiation - discharge
  * Pelvic CT scan
  * Pelvis MRI scan
  * Prostate brachytherapy
  * Prostate brachytherapy - discharge

  * Prostate cancer
  * Prostate cancer - treatment
  * Prostate cancer staging
  * Prostate radiation - discharge
  * Prostatectomy - slideshow
  * Radical prostatectomy
  * Radical prostatectomy - discharge
  * Understanding your prostate cancer risk

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

  * Prostate Cancer Screening
  * Prostate Diseases

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Prostate Cancer is the National
Cancer Institute

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Prostate Cancer_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 2 April 2020 Topic last reviewed: 5 June 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

