Link: https://medlineplus.gov/coronaryarterydisease.html    
                                Description: Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the most common type of heart disease. It can lead to angina and heart attack. Read about symptoms and tests.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Coronary Artery Disease

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/coronaryarterydisease.html

#  Coronary Artery Disease

Also called: CAD, Coronary arteriosclerosis, Coronary atherosclerosis

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Diagnosis and Tests
  * Prevention and Risk Factors
  * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

  * Living With
  * Related Issues
  * Specifics
  * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

  * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Reference Desk
  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Women
  * Older Adults
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the most common type of heart disease. It is
the leading cause of death in the United States in both men and women.

CAD happens when the arteries that supply blood to heart muscle become
hardened and narrowed. This is due to the buildup of cholesterol and other
material, called plaque, on their inner walls. This buildup is called
atherosclerosis. As it grows, less blood can flow through the arteries. As a
result, the heart muscle can't get the blood or oxygen it needs. This can lead
to chest pain (angina) or a heart attack. Most heart attacks happen when a
blood clot suddenly cuts off the hearts' blood supply, causing permanent heart
damage.

Over time, CAD can also weaken the heart muscle and contribute to heart
failure and arrhythmias. Heart failure means the heart can't pump blood well
to the rest of the body. Arrhythmias are changes in the normal beating rhythm
of the heart.

NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Start Here

  * Coronary Artery Disease (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
  * Coronary Artery Disease - Coronary Heart Disease (American Heart Association)
  * Coronary Heart Disease? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute) Also in Spanish
  * Ischemic Heart Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Coronary Computed Tomography Angiography (CTA) (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
  * Heart Health Tests: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * hs-CRP Test (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
  * Intravascular Ultrasound (Texas Heart Institute) Also in Spanish
  * LDL Particle Testing (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
  * Lipid Panel (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
  * Screening for Coronary Heart Disease with Electrocardiography (U.S. Preventive Services Task Force) \- PDF

## Prevention and Risk Factors

  * Cardiac Risk Assessment (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
  * How to Prevent Heart Disease: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

  * Angioplasty: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Cardiac Procedures and Surgeries (American Heart Association)
  * Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Coronary Artery Disease: Angioplasty or Bypass Surgery? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * What Is a Stent? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Living With

  * Cardiac Rehabilitation: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * What You Need to Know If You Have Coronary Artery Disease (American Heart Association)

## Related Issues

  * Drug-Eluting Stents: Do They Increase Heart Attack Risk? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Vulnerable Plaque (Texas Heart Institute) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

  * Acute Coronary Syndrome (American Heart Association)
  * Myocardial Ischemia (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * What Is Atherosclerosis? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute) Also in Spanish

## Genetics

  * Genetics Home Reference: Werner syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Videos and Tutorials

  * Coronary artery disease ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Coronary Artery Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Endpoint selection for noninferiority percutaneous coronary intervention trials: a methodological description.
  * Article: Polymer-based or Polymer-free Stents in Patients at High Bleeding Risk.
  * Article: Association of tumor necrosis factor-Î± gene polymorphisms and coronary artery disease...
  * Coronary Artery Disease -- see more articles
  * Coronary thrombosis -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

  * Coronary Arteries (Texas Heart Institute) Also in Spanish
  * Heart and Stroke Encyclopedia (American Heart Association)
  * Heart Information Center (Texas Heart Institute) Also in Spanish
  * How the Heart Works ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Find an Expert

  * American Heart Association
  * National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Women

  * Heart Disease in Women: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Older Adults

  * Heart Attack Coronary Artery Disease (American Geriatrics Society)

## Patient Handouts

  * Acute coronary syndrome (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Angioplasty and stent - heart - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Angioplasty and stent placement - heart (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Coronary angiography (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Coronary artery spasm (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Coronary heart disease (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Coronary Artery
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CoronaryArteryDisease.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Acute coronary syndrome
  * Angioplasty and stent - heart - discharge
  * Angioplasty and stent placement - heart
  * Coronary artery disease
  * Coronary artery spasm
  * Coronary heart disease
  * Hardening of the arteries
  * Heart PET scan
  * Hypertensive heart disease
  * Left heart catheterization

  * Living with heart disease and angina
  * Magnetic resonance angiography
  * Nuclear stress test
  * Stent
  * VLDL test

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

  * Angina
  * Atherosclerosis
  * Cardiac Rehabilitation
  * Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery
  * Heart Attack
  * Heart Diseases
  * Heart Health Tests

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Coronary Artery Disease is the
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Coronary Artery
Disease_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 10 February 2020 Topic last reviewed: 1 November 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

