

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# STD Webinars

Minus

Related Pages

Recorded Webinars

#### Webinar Series

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 2015 STD Treatment Guidelines Webinars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Development and Quality Improvement Webinar Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * STD Prevention Science Series

**ELC K8: Threat of Antibiotic Resistant Gonorrhea--Rapid Detection and
Response Capacity**  - April 8, 2016

This webinar provided an overview of the K8 ELC supplement, which is part of
the larger Epidemiology and Laboratory Capacity for Infectious Diseases
Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA)external icon. The webinar focused on
building epidemiologic, surveillance, and laboratory capacity to rapidly
detect and respond to reduced-susceptibility and resistant gonorrhea and
described Strategies and Activities specific to this FOA.

Participants also learned about CDC's framework for these ideas, and will
better understand how they relate to - yet are distinct from - other Division
funding opportunities such as the Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project
(GISP) and the STD Surveillance Network (SSuN).

Representatives from CDC's Division of STD Prevention (DSTDP) responded to
questions about the required and optional Activities that make up this
epidemiologic, surveillance, and laboratory capacity-building FOA.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View Recordingmedia icon   ![closed captioned](/std/images/icons/closed-caption.gif)

**The Last Resort: Electronic Health Communication in North Carolina-
**September 23, 2015

Steve Beagle, Field Coordinator for the North Carolina Department of Health
and Human Services,  presented a visual account of the evolution of partner
services in North Carolina to reach previously untraceable clients, from email
and web sites to text messaging and smart phone apps.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View Recordingmedia icon  ![closed captioned](/std/images/icons/closed-caption.gif)



**Report-Back and Update on the STD AAPPS Program Outcome Measures (POM) -**
June 23, 2015

![Report-Back and Update on the STD AAPPS Program Outcome Measures
\(POM\)](/std/training/images/aapps_pom_report_back_next_submission_6-23-2015.JPG)

DSTDP Evaluation Team members Marion Carter and Dayne Collins presented the
"Report-Back and Update on the STD AAPPS Program Outcome Measures (POM)"
Webinar on June 23.  This two-part webinar included a presentation of findings
from the March 2015 POM submissions, where presenters summarized statistics
and comparisons across project areas and described plans for further
dissemination. For the second part of the webinar, DSTDP staff outlined
guidance and rationale for the upcoming August 2015 POM submission, including
changes to existing POM as well as new POM.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View Recordingmedia icon  ![closed captioned](/std/images/icons/closed-caption.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Webinar Slides including poll resultspdf icon



**NEDSS Base System STD Module Webinar** July 24, 2014

This webinar demonstrated the new STD Module of the National Electronic
Disease Surveillance System Base System (NBS).

NBS provides reporting jurisdictions with a NEDSS-compatible information
system to facilitate transferring health, laboratory, and clinical data
efficiently and securely over the Internet. The demo focused on case
management and other STD-specific features of the NBS. Staff from CDC's
Division of Health Informatics and Surveillance answered questions about the
NBS STD Module development and implementation.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View Recording ![Audio/Video file](/TemplatePackage/images/icon_wmv.gif) ![closed captioned](/std/images/icons/closed-caption.gif)



**Community Approaches to Reducing Sexually Transmitted Diseases FOA** - March
6, 2014  
CDC's Division of STD Prevention hosted a webinar about the new Community
Approaches to Reducing Sexually Transmitted Diseases (CARs) Funding
Opportunity Announcement (FOA).

For the CARS cooperative agreement, CDC will work with organizations to
promote sexual health, advance community wellness, influence sexual health
behavior and practices, and reduce STI disparities. The FOA provides support
in the following five focus areas:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. Implementation of community engagement methods (e.g. community-based participatory research) to achieve health equity;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2. Identification and implementation of systems and environmental change strategies that (a) promote sexual health and support healthy behaviors and (b) facilitate community-clinical linkages to build support for interventions to prevent and reduce STI disparities;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3. Enhancement and sustainability of partnerships;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4. Support for communication strategies to promote STD program successes and leverage additional resources for STI control and prevention; and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5. Evaluation of the efficacy of this approach and intervention implementation.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View Recordingmedia icon ![closed captioned](/std/images/icons/closed-caption.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Webinar Slidespdf icon



**Third-Party Billing for Public Health STD Services: A Summary of Coordinated
Needs Assessment** - February 26, 2014  
This webinar was based on information collected by the STD-related
Reproductive Health, Prevention, Training, and Technical Assistance Centers.
Andee Krasner, Region I STD TTAC Project Manager; Jennifer Kawatu, Region I
STD TTAC Project Director; and Daryn Eikner, Director of Service Improvement
at the Family Planning Council provided webinar participants with an overview
of national data collected to better understand the current status and
capacity for billing for STD services, training and technical assistance needs
for STD-certified 340B clinics, state or project area STD programs, and state
public health laboratories.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View Recordingmedia icon ![closed captioned](/std/images/icons/closed-caption.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Webinar Slidespdf icon

**STD AAPPS Kickoff Meeting: Moving Forward in 2014 and Beyond** - January 28,
2014  
Staff from CDC's Division of STD Prevention and the Procurement and Grants
Office hosted "STD AAPPS Kickoff Meeting: Moving Forward in 2014 and Beyond,"
a webinar for STD AAPPS grantees. Topics covered on this webinar included
cooperative agreement monitoring, program consultant activities and
assignments, PGO requirements, and how to request technical assistance.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View Recordingmedia icon ![closed captioned](/std/images/icons/closed-caption.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * STD AAPPS: Getting Started Slidespdf icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Managing Your Cooperative Agreement Slidespdf icon



**Disease Intervention Services Training Centers FOA** - November 8, 2013  
Staff from CDC's Division of STD Prevention and the Division of HIV/AIDS
Prevention hosted a webinar about the new funding opportunity announcement
(FOA) for STD/HIV Disease Intervention Services Training Centers (DISTC). CDC
staff provided general information to applicants about the DISTC FOA.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View Recordingmedia icon ![closed captioned](/std/images/icons/closed-caption.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Webinar Slidespdf icon



**Program Science: The Concept and Applications** - August 20, 2013, Dr. Sevgi
Aral, Associate Director of Science in CDC's Division of STD Prevention
provides webinar participants with general information about Program Science
as a scientific focus; systems science as the core scientific discipline in
Program Science; systems science methodologies; and Program Science
Initiatives in the UK, Australia, and North America. Researchers, academia,
and STD program staff will find this webinar of interest in their daily work.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Webinar Slidespdf icon



**Program evaluation, quality improvement, and performance management:
Understanding how they relate and their role in public health programs** -
August 6, 2013, Presenters: Craig Thomas, Liza Corso, and Harold Pietz from
CDC's Office of State, Tribal, Local and Territorial Support (OSTLTS)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Webinar Slidespdf icon

**STD AAPPS Funding Opportunity Orientation, Q &A, and Evaluation** - June 17
and 26 and July 11, 2013

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View recordings and more information



**The Revised Congenital Syphilis Report Form- What's New, Why, and How to Use
It** - April 29, 2013 with John R. Su, MD, Phd, MPH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View Recordingmedia icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View recording closed captionedmedia icon ![closed captioned](/std/images/icons/closed-caption.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Questions and Answers from the CS Webinar



**Reducing the Burden of HPV-associated Cancer and Disease through Vaccination
in the US - CDC Public Health Grand Rounds** - February 19, 2013

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View recording, description and handout
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * MMWR on CDC Grand Rounds: Reducing the Burden of HPV-Associated Cancer and Disease (January 31, 2014)

**The Growing Threat of Multidrug-Resistant Gonorrhea - CDC Public Health
Grand Rounds** - May 15, 2012

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View recording, description and handout
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * MMWR on CDC Grand Rounds: The Growing Threat of Multidrug-Resistant Gonorrhea (February 14, 2013)



2015 STD Treatment Guidelines Webinars

**2015 CDC STD Treatment Guidelines Update Webinar in Spanish** - April 5,
2016

Hosted by the NYC STD/HIV Prevention Training Center, the University of
Washington STD Prevention Training Center, the National Network of STD
Clinical Prevention Training Centers, and the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.

Continuing medical and nursing education credits (CME/CNE) are available.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View Recordingmedia icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View  Transcriptpdf icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CE Instructionspdf icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instrucciones para obtener Eduación Continuapdf icon

**2015 STD Treatment Guidelines Overview Webinar** - June 22, 2015

![2015 STD Treatment Guidelines Overview
Webinar](/std/training/images/2015_std_treatment_guidelines_06-22-2015.jpg)

The STD Treatment Guidelines were developed through a rigorous peer-review
process to assist clinicians and healthcare providers in giving their patients
the appropriate STD testing, treatment, and counseling messages.  The 2015 STD
Treatment Guidelines were released in June, and included updated testing,
treatment, and diagnosis recommendations. Please join this webinar hosted by
the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's Division of STD
Prevention and the National Network of STD/HIV Prevention Training Centers to
learn about these key changes.

Continuing education credits are available for this webinar.  At the
conclusion of the session, the participant will be able to accomplish the
following:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Discuss clinical significance of the STD prevention issue.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Describe epidemiological trends related to the STD prevention issue.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Identify key screening, treatment, and prevention recommendations for management of the STD prevention issue.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Promote health improvement, wellness, and disease prevention in cooperation with patients, communities, at-risk populations, and other members of an interprofessional team of health care providers.

The CE credits offered are:

CME:  1.5 hours  
CNE:  1.5 hours  
CEU:  0.2 hours  
CECH:  1.5 hours  
CPE: 0.15 hours

Step-by-step instructions on how to obtain CE credit on TCEOnlinepdf icon

View Recordingmedia icon  ![closed captioned](/std/images/icons/closed-
caption.gif)

Webinar Slidespdf icon

Questions & Answers from the webinar

Program Development and Quality Improvement Webinar Series

CDC's Division of STD Prevention will host a webinar every month to discuss
issues of interest to STD AAPPS grantees and those in STD programs at local
and state health department. Webinar registration information will be posted
on this page.

**STD AAPPS Program Outcome Measures: Highlights from the Sept 2014 Submission
and Proposed Changes for the Future** January 29, 2015

STD AAPPS awardees submitted their first set of program outcome measures to
DSTDP in September 2014, covering the first 6 months of the award. Since then,
the measures and initial results have been under review and minor and major
changes are being planned for those measures. In this webinar, CDC staff
shared highlights from that data submission. CDC staff also described the
proposed changes, the rationale for changes, and what will be requested for
March 2015 and beyond. CDC staff described the administrative requirements
related to support for clinical preventive services under STD AAPPS, which CDC
will request for March.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View Recordingmedia icon   ![closed captioned](/std/images/icons/closed-caption.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Webinar Slidespdf icon

**Assessing Partner Services as a Priority Intervention** September 24, 2014

Dr. Matthew Hogben, Chief of the Social and Behavioral Research and Evaluation
Branch, led the Partner Services assessment Webinar.

Those who attended the 2014 grantees meeting identified Partner Services as a
priority intervention. As follow-up to this feedback, in this webinar Dr.
Hogben will described a framework to assess partner services in STD control in
2014 - 2019.  He also presented an overview of the pertinent literature and a
data snapshot from current programs to characterize the process and outcome
indicators of some partner services programs.

Following the presentation there was a discussion about possible approaches to
improving Partner Services.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View Recordingmedia icon   ![closed captioned](/std/images/icons/closed-caption.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Webinar Slidespdf icon

**STD-AAPPS Awardee Meeting Findings and Evaluation August 14, 2014**

Dr. Jill Huppert, Program Development & Quality Improvement Branch (PDQIB)
Branch Chief, and other DSTDP leadership presented the "STD-AAPPS Awardee
Meeting Findings and Evaluation" webinar ton August 14, 2014. Presenters
discussed findings and evaluation results from the STD-AAPPS awardee meeting
sessions held at the 2014 STD Prevention Conference in June, 2014. Presenters
shared a description of DSTDP's plans to address the meeting findings and led
a discussion of next steps to support STD-AAPPS outcomes. Webinar participants
also had the opportunity to provide additional input regarding future AAPPS
meetings.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View Recording ![Audio/Video file](/TemplatePackage/images/icon_wmv.gif) ![closed captioned](/std/images/icons/closed-caption.gif)

**Supplemental Funding Opportunity Announcement for STD AAPPS July 8, 2014**

CDC's Division of STD Prevention hosted a webinar on July 8, 2014 about the
new supplemental funding opportunity announcement (FOA) to STD AAPPS. This
supplement will support enhanced program evaluation in a limited number of
project areas over the next few years. Eligibility is limited to current
awardees of STD AAPPS. This supplemental FOA focuses on evaluation of one or
more of the following program strategies:  1) Use of assessment data for
program decision-making, 2) Increasing CT screening in primary care settings,
3) Use of DIS for HIV-related outcomes, and 4) DIS contributions towards STD
prevention more generally.

For the webinar, CDC staff provided general information to applicants about
the enhanced program evaluation AAPPS FOA supplement.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Webinar recording not available
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Webinar Slidespdf icon 

**Update on STD AAPPS Program Outcome Measures May 8, 2014**

CDC's Division of STD Prevention (DSTDP), in collaboration with the National
Coalition of STD Directors (NCSD) and various project areas, have been
developing program outcome measures for STD AAPPS. DSTDP staff described
changes made to the measures in response to feedback and presented the latest
set for 2014.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View Recordingmedia icon ![closed captioned](/std/images/icons/closed-caption.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Webinar Slidespdf icon

**STD AAPPS Laws and Policy for AAPPS Grantees April 10, 2014**

CDC's Division of STD Prevention (DSTDP) hosted a webinar, "Laws and policy
for AAPPS grantees", on Thursday April 10, 2014. Lori Elmore, Lydia Poromon,
and Ryan Cramer from DSTDP's Office of Policy, Planning and External
Relations, presented the webinar.

The presenters described the difference between policy and lobbying, introduce
policy activities and deliverables under AAPPS, and provided examples of
activities from state and local programs. The presenters also characterized
the fundamentals of federal, state, and local lawmaking and provided an
overview of state statutes concerning the prevention of sexually transmitted
diseases.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View Recordingpdf icon ![closed captioned](/std/images/icons/closed-caption.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Webinar Slidespdf icon

**STD AAPPS Gap Analysis: Guidance and Toolkit Development, March 13, 2014**

DSTDP leadership discussed the STD Service GAP Analysis tool, guidance
development, pilot activities, and lessons learned and shared guidance and
examples from the Program Collaboration and Service Integration (PCSI) GAP
analysis.

Participants learned about recommended practices for performing STD Service
GAP analysis. Representatives from DSTDP commented on how the presentation's
content applies to the work that will be performed by the Division and its
partners.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View Recordingmedia icon ![closed captioned](/std/images/icons/closed-caption.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Webinar Slidespdf icon

**Introduction to Awardee Evaluation Plans and National Outcome Measures for
STD AAPPS, Rescheduled: February 20, 2014**

DSTDP leadership and staff described STD AAPPS awardee requirements in the
first year of that award. They also provided an update on national outcome
measures for AAPPS.

Participants will learn about proposed guidance for the Awardee Evaluation
Plans. Representatives from DSTDP commented on how the presentation's content
applies to the work that will be performed by the Division and its partners.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View Recordingmedia icon ![closed captioned](/std/images/icons/closed-caption.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Webinar Slidespdf icon

STD Prevention Science Series

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's Division of STD Prevention
and the American Sexually Transmitted Diseases Association have partnered to
bring you the latest research and best practices for STD prevention with the
STD Prevention Science Series.

**Integration of molecular epidemiology with behavioral surveillance to
identify HIV and HCV epidemic drivers in at risk populations: Lessons learned
from Pakistan and Ukraine - **September 7, 2017, by Paul Sandstrom, PhD,

The presentation focused on the use of bioinformatics tools to resolve HIV and
HCV transmission dynamics in at risk populations in Pakistan and Ukraine.
Specifically the identification of a previously underappreciated HIV epidemic
amongst young women engaging in transactional sex work in Eastern Europe, as
well hidden epidemic drivers in at risk populations (people who inject drugs
and sex workers) in Pakistan.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * More Informationpdf icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View Recordingmedia icon

** Conceptualizing Geo-Sexual Archetypes: Mapping the sexual travels and ego-
centric sexual networks of gay and bisexual men in Toronto, Canada **- June 8,
2017 by Dionne Gesink, PhD

There is a complex and persistent syphilis epidemic affecting gay, bisexual
and other men who have sex with men (gbMSM) in every major urban centre across
North America. Dr. Gesink described an initial exploration into the geography
of sex, a necessary, yet understudied, aspect of STI transmission.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View Recordingmedia icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * More Informationpdf icon



**Transgender Health Disparities: Challenges and Opportunities STD Prevention
Science Series- **March 23, 2017 by Aron Janssen, MD

Dr. Aron Janssen described what we do and do not know about the mental health
and medical needs of this population, and the structural barriers that make
access to appropriate care difficult

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View Recording   **![closed captioned](/std/images/icons/closed-caption.gif)**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * More Informationpdf icon



**French Disease to Ipergay: Syphilis networks in the PrEP era- **January 26,
2017 by John Schneider, MD, MPH

Dr. John Schneider  described syphilis networks of the most at-risk
populations in the United States and in particular, younger Black men who have
sex with men. He presented comparisons of these networks with HIV networks and
the implications of co-infection. Dr. Schneider contextualized both networks
within the era of PrEP and described ongoing and novel network interventions
to limit the impact of ongoing domestic syphilis epidemics.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View Recording
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * More Informationpdf icon

**A Journey through Syphilis: How does** _ **Treponema pallidum**_ **cause
such a complex disease?** - June 2, 2016 by Sheila Lukehart, PhD

Syphilis is a disease that comes and goes, with manifestations affecting many
different organ systems. The clinical course is the result of interactions
between the host's immune response and the bacterium's ability to overcome or
evade that response, a duel that can last a lifetime. This presentation
focused on our evolving understanding of these host and bacterial mechanisms,
and their implications for syphilis control.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * More Informationpdf icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View Recording   ![closed captioned](/std/images/icons/closed-caption.gif)

**STDs, the Genital Microbiome and HIV Transmission: What is Happening Down
There?** - March 10, 2016 by Rupert Kaul, MD, PhD

Antiretroviral therapy (ART) dramatically reduces HIV transmission when used
as treatment or as PrEP, but the global rate of new HIV infections currently
outstrips our ability to provide ART. Most of these new HIV infections are
acquired through sex, when the mucosal lining of the vagina, penis or rectum
is exposed to HIV-infected genital fluids. Sexual HIV transmission is
surprisingly inefficient, with a per-contact risk under 1% for most exposures.
This presentation  focused on how this risk is dependent on the dynamic
interaction between our immune system and microbes--both HIV, other STIs and
the larger microbiome--at the mucosal surfaces of the genital tract and gut,
and highlighted some challenges of translating these research findings into
new HIV prevention strategies.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * More Informationpdf icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View Recording   ![closed captioned](/std/images/icons/closed-caption.gif)

**Comprehensive Sexual Health Care for Sexually and Gender Minority Patients
in the HAART and PrEP Era** - December 3, 2015 by Kenneth Mayer, MD

Sexual and gender minority patients have experienced sexual health disparities
that are partially related to behaviors (e.g. frequent partner change among
some subgroups), biology (e.g. increased susceptibility of the rectal mucosa
to HIV and several other STIs), and structural factors (e.g. lack of
culturally competent care, unsupportive socio-political environments). The
advent of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) and pre-exposure
prophylaxis (PrEP) means that individuals can engage in condomless sex without
HIV transmission. The implications of the new findings in HIV prevention for
STI management and control were explored in this talk, with suggestions for
the development of new paradigms to enhance the sexual health of these
populations.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View Recording  ![closed captioned](/std/images/icons/closed-caption.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * More Informationpdf icon

**Risks and Resiliencies: HIV and STIs among Gay Men, other Men who have Sex
with Men and Transgender Women Globally- **September 3, 2015 by Stefan Baral,
MD, MPH, FRCPC

The STD Prevention Science Series presented the results of recent systematic
reviews of the burden of HIV and STIs among gay men, other men who have sex
with men, and transgender women in both high and low and middle income
settings. The webinar also included a discussion about the vulnerabilities
that lead to adverse health outcomes among these populations.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View Recording  ![closed captioned](/std/images/icons/closed-caption.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * More Informationpdf icon

**Public Health in a Hostile Environment: Racial Inequality and STD/HIV in the
US  **- June 4, 2015 by Adaora Adimora, MD, MPH

![Public Health in a Hostile Environment: Racial Inequality and STD/HIV in the
US](/std/training/images/public_health_hostile_environment_racial_inequality_std-
hiv_6-4-2015.jpg)

It's now well understood that social factors are a major determinant of HIV
and other STDs. But how can we develop relevant interventions? And what are
the methodological challenges of social determinants research? This talk
explored how these issues can impact STD epidemiologic research among African-
Americans.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View Recording   ![closed captioned](/std/images/icons/closed-caption.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * More Informationpdf icon

**STDs Amplify the Transmission of HIV: Where do we go from here? -** December
11, 2014, by Myron S. Cohen, M.D.

Since the time HIV was discovered as the cause of AIDS, we have known that a
wide variety of STDs amplify transmission of the virus. The biological forces
that create such risk are increasingly well understood. The greatest challenge
has been to design strategies that link detection and treatment of STDs to
reduced transmission of HIV.

This STD Prevention Science Series webinar explored that challenge.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View recording   ![closed captioned](/std/images/icons/closed-caption.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * More informationpdf icon

**From Partner Services to Field Services: The Evolving Role of Public Health
Outreach to Control HIV/STDs** - March 13, 2014, by Matthew Golden, MD  
Dr. Golden spoke about the evolving role of public health out¬reach in
HIV/STD. Partner services have been a component of public health STD control
since the 1940s, but were not initially widely employed to combat the HIV
epidemic and were never adequately funded to meaningfully affect rates of
chlamydial infection. The advent of expedited partner therapy for gonorrhea
and chlamydial infection, a new national emphasis on the HIV care continuum,
and HIV/STD program integration are now fundamentally altering the role of
disease investigation and outreach in the control of HIV/STD, both in the U.S.
and in low income nations.

Dr. Golden's talk presented evidence supporting an expanded role for field
outreach in the control of HIV/STD and discussed outstanding operational
research questions that confront this area of public health practice.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View Recording ![closed captioned](/std/images/icons/closed-caption.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * More Informationpdf icon

**The Microbiome of the Penis in Adolescent Men -** March 7, 2013  
with J. Dennis Fortenberry, MD, MS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View Recording ![closed captioned](/std/images/icons/closed-caption.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * More Informationpdf icon

**The Road From Observation to Intervention to Implementation: Perspectives of
a Pragmatic HIV Prevention Researcher** - December 13, 2012  
with Connie Celum, MD, MPH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View recording ![closed captioned](/std/images/icons/closed-caption.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Information about the presentation and Dr. Celumpdf iconThis educational activity can now be accessed as an educational resource but CME credit is no longer available.

**Contraception and STI/HIV: Balancing the Tradeoffs in Different Contexts** -
August 31, 2012  
with Ward Cates, MD, MPH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View recording ![closed captioned](/std/images/icons/closed-caption.gif)This educational activity can now be accessed as an educational resource but CME credit is no longer available.

**It's Not Just the Pathogen Anymore: The Genital Microbiome and Implications
for Sexually Transmitted Infections** - July 6, 2012  
with Jeanne Marrazzo, MD, MPH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * View recording ![closed captioned](/std/images/icons/closed-caption.gif)

### ![Continuing Education ](/std/images/icons/CEsmall.gif) **= Continuing
Education Credits Available  
![closed captioned](/std/images/icons/closed-caption.gif) = Closed Captioned**

####



Page last reviewed: July 23, 2013

Content source: Division of STD Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention

home Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Diseases & Related Conditionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HIV/AIDS & STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STDs & Infertility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STDs during Pregnancyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Detailed Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment and Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Risk and Oral Sex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Trichomoniasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Other STDsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Laboratory Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Life Stages and Populationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescents and Young Adultsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adolescents and Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adolescents and STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gay, Bisexual and Other MSMplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gay Men & STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Just Diagnosed?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Which STD Tests Should I Get?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Lowdown Infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Management & Evaluation Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Effective Interventions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gap Assessment Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Outbreak Response Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Congenital Syphilis HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Disseminated Gonococcal Infection HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gonorrhea with Reduced SusceptibilityÂ HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LGV HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Practical Use of Program Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Program Operations Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * S.P.A.C.E. Monkey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Data Management & Information Technologyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Generic Information Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * BPMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Partner Servicesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Internet Partner Services Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * VCAmon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CS Webinar Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Projects & Initiativesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD PCHDplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * National Disease Intervention Specialist (DIS) Recognition Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project (GISP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Health Equityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Community Approaches to Reducing STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Indian Health Service Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SDMB Contacts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tools & Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Brochuresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Facts Brochures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ä¸­æ (Chinese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * KreyÃ²l (Haitian Creole)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ð ÑÑÑÐºÐ¸Ð¹ (Russian)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tiáº½ng ViÃªt (Vietnamese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Prevention Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Provider Pocket Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicated Content
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Videos and Podcastsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Letâs Talk About Sexual Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Safe in the City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Webinars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Widgets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Trainingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Prevention Coursesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Passport to Partner Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Advanced STD Intervention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Visual Case Analysis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Principles of STD Supervision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Intervention for Supervisors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Essentials of STD Supervision I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tailored Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Continuing Education Online
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SASSI â SAS Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD 101 in a Boxplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Script for _Sex in the City_ Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Clinical Slidesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Clinical Slides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Picture Cardsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Picture Cards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Treatment and Screeningplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Drug Noticesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gemifloxacin 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Procaine Penicillin G Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Erythromycin (0.5%) Ophthalmic Ointment Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Expedited Partner Therapyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gonorrhea Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Legal Status of EPT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Legal/Policy Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Prenatal Syphilis Screening Laws
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD QCS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Additional Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About the Division of STD Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fundingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Disease Intervention Training Centers (DITC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * National Network of STD Clinical Prevention Training Centers (NNPTC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * SSuN: Program and other NOFO Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Strategic Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive

Follow STD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Social_round_twitter twitter STD on Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Social_round_facebook facebook STD on Facebook

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

