Link: https://medlineplus.gov/alzheimersdisease.html    
                                Description: Alzheimer&#39;s disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia among older people. Discover the symptoms, treatments, and latest Alzheimer&#39;s research.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Alzheimer's Disease

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/alzheimersdisease.html

#  Alzheimer's Disease

Also called: AD

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Symptoms
  * Diagnosis and Tests
  * Prevention and Risk Factors
  * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

  * Living With
  * Related Issues
  * Specifics
  * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

  * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

  * Statistics and Research
  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Reference Desk
  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia among older
people. Dementia is a brain disorder that seriously affects a person's ability
to carry out daily activities.

AD begins slowly. It first involves the parts of the brain that control
thought, memory and language. People with AD may have trouble remembering
things that happened recently or names of people they know. A related problem,
mild cognitive impairment (MCI), causes more memory problems than normal for
people of the same age. Many, but not all, people with MCI will develop AD.

In AD, over time, symptoms get worse. People may not recognize family members.
They may have trouble speaking, reading or writing. They may forget how to
brush their teeth or comb their hair. Later on, they may become anxious or
aggressive, or wander away from home. Eventually, they need total care. This
can cause great stress for family members who must care for them.

AD usually begins after age 60. The risk goes up as you get older. Your risk
is also higher if a family member has had the disease.

No treatment can stop the disease. However, some drugs may help keep symptoms
from getting worse for a limited time.

NIH: National Institute on Aging

## Start Here

  * Alzheimer's Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging)
  * Alzheimer's Disease Information Page ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)

## Symptoms

  * 10 Early Signs and Symptoms of Alzheimer's (Alzheimer's Association)
  * What Are the Signs of Alzheimer's Disease? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging)

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * ApoE (Apolipoprotein E) Genotyping (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
  * How is Alzheimer's Disease Diagnosed? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging)
  * What Is Dementia? Symptoms, Types, and Diagnosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging)

## Prevention and Risk Factors

  * Assessing Risk for Alzheimer's Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging) Also in Spanish
  * Brain Health (Alzheimer's Association)
  * What Do We Know About Diet and Prevention of Alzheimer's Disease? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging)

## Treatments and Therapies

  * 5 Things to Know about Complementary Health Practices for Cognitive Function, Dementia, and Alzheimer's Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
  * About Alzheimer's Disease: Treatment ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging)
  * Alzheimer's Disease at a Glance ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
  * Alzheimer's Disease Medications ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging) Also in Spanish
  * Treatments for Sleep Changes (Alzheimer's Association)

## Living With

  * Alzheimer's Caregivers: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Diet, Exercise and Health (Fisher Center for Alzheimer's Research Foundation)
  * Healthy Eating and Alzheimer's Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging)
  * Next Steps After an Alzheimer's Diagnosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging) Also in Spanish
  * Stages and Behaviors (Alzheimer's Association)
  * Sundowning: Late-Day Confusion (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Tips for Daily Life (Alzheimer's Association)

## Related Issues

  * About Alzheimer's Disease: Causes ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging) Also in Spanish
  * Alzheimer's Disease in People with Down Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging)
  * Alzheimer's Myths (Alzheimer's Association)
  * Depression and Alzheimer's Disease (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
  * Do Memory Problems Always Mean Alzheimer's Disease? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging)
  * Understanding Memory Loss: What To Do When You Have Trouble Remembering ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging) \- PDF

## Specifics

  * Seven Stages of Alzheimer's (Alzheimer's Association)

## Genetics

  * Alzheimer's Disease Genetics ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging)
  * Genetics Home Reference: Alzheimer disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * If a Family Member Has Alzheimer's Disease, Will I Have It, Too? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Infographic](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Infographic.gif) (National Institute on Aging)

## Videos and Tutorials

  * Alzheimer's disease ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * How Alzheimer's Changes the Brain ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (National Institute on Aging)

## Statistics and Research

  * Alzheimer's and Dementia Testing for Earlier Diagnosis (Alzheimer's Association)
  * Alzheimer's Disease Facts and Figures ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Alzheimer's Association)
  * Gene Expression Signatures of Alzheimer's Disease (National Institute on Aging)
  * Scam Susceptibility May Signal Risk for Cognitive Decline (National Institute on Aging)
  * Treatment Horizon (Alzheimer's Association)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Alzheimer Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * Common Questions About Participating in Alzheimer's and Related Dementias Research ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging)
  * Participating in Alzheimer's Disease Research ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging)
  * People at Genetic Risk for Alzheimer's Disease to Test Prevention Drugs ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Nanoemulsions for targeting the neurodegenerative diseases: Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Prion's.
  * Article: An update on the utility and safety of cholinesterase inhibitors for...
  * Article: Misfolded proteins as a therapeutic target in Alzheimer's disease.
  * Alzheimer's Disease -- see more articles
  * Causes of Alzeheimer's disease -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

  * Alzheimer's: Glossary (Alzheimer's Association)
  * Life and Death of a Neuron ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)

## Find an Expert

  * Alzheimer's Association
  * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
  * National Institute on Aging ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

  * Alzheimer disease (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Bathing, Dressing, and Grooming: Alzheimer's Caregiving Tips ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging) \- PDF Also in Spanish
  * Changes in Communication Skills ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging) \- PDF Also in Spanish
  * Changes in Intimacy and Sexuality in Alzheimer's Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging) \- PDF Also in Spanish
  * Coping with Agitation and Aggression ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging) \- PDF
  * Hallucinations, Delusions, and Paranoia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging) \- PDF
  * Helping Family and Friends Understand Alzheimer's Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging) \- PDF Also in Spanish
  * Managing Medicines for a Person with Alzheimer's ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging) \- PDF
  * Managing Personality and Behavior Changes ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging) \- PDF
  * Mental status testing (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Urinary Incontinence in Older Adults ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging) \- PDF

## Topic Image

![Alzheimer's Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Alzheimers.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Alzheimer disease
  * Alzheimer's disease
  * Brain PET scan
  * Dementia - home care
  * Mental status testing

## Related Health Topics

  * Alzheimer's Caregivers
  * Caregivers
  * Dementia
  * Memory
  * Mild Cognitive Impairment

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Alzheimer's Disease is the
National Institute on Aging

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Alzheimer 's
Disease_

## NIH MedlinePlus Magazine

  * Alzheimer's and Dementia: An Overview
  * EXERT Yourself and Help in the Search for an Alzheimer's Cure
  * Fighting for a Cure: Journalist Liz Hernandez Hopes to Make Alzheimer's a Thing of the Past

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 31 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 23 October 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

