

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                  * Facebook
                  * Twitter
                  * LinkedIn
                  * Email
                  * Syndicate

# Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS)

Minus

Related Pages

Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) is viral respiratory illness that is
new to humans. It was first reported in Saudi Arabia in 2012 and has since
spread to several other countries, including the United States. Most people
infected with MERS-CoV developed severe respiratory illness, including fever,
cough, and shortness of breath. Many of them have died.

More

  
![An electron micrograph showing spherical MERS-DoV particles within the
cytoplasm of an infected cell](/coronavirus/mers/images/header_vp1.jpg)

About MERS

Information about MERS including symptoms and complications, how it spreads,
prevention and treatment…

People Who May Be at Increased Risk for MERS

Information for travelers from the Arabian Peninsula, contacts of ill
travelers from this area, contacts of a confirmed case of MERS, healthcare
personnel not using infection-control precautions, and people with exposure to
camels…

Frequently Asked Questions and Answers

Information about MERS, the virus that causes it, how it spreads, symptoms,
prevention tips, and what CDC is doing…

MERS in the U.S.

Information about the MERS situation in the U.S. and about the two imported
cases confirmed in the U.S. in May 2014…

Information for Healthcare Professionals

Interim guidance, clinical features of MERS, case definitions, tools to
collect data on persons under investigation, infection prevention and control
recommendations, monitoring and movement guidance, preparedness checklists,
home care and isolation or quarantine guidance, air medical transport
guidance...

Information for Laboratories

Guidelines for collecting, handling, and testing clinical specimens, and lab
biosafety guidelines...

Guidance for Travel

Guidelines for travelers to the Arabian Peninsula, guidance for airline crew
on flights arriving to the U.S...

Related Materials

Photos of MERS-CoV and additional information for general public, media,
healthcare professionals and laboratories…

Countries with Lab-Confirmed MERS Cases

 **Countries in or near the Arabian Peninsula that have reported MERS cases**
: Bahrain, Iran, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, United
Arab Emirates (UAE), and Yemen.

**Countries outside of the Arabian Peninsula with travel-associated MERS
cases** : Algeria, Austria, China, Egypt, France, Germany, Greece, Italy,
Malaysia, Netherlands, Philippines, Republic of Korea, Thailand, Tunisia,
Turkey, United Kingdom (UK), and United States of America (USA).

![CDC, Medscape from WebMD](/coronavirus/mers/images/medscape-logo.gif)

![CDC Commentary: Be on the Lookout for MERS-
CoV](/coronavirus/mers/images/MERS-CoV-video.jpg)

CDC Commentary: Be on the Lookout for MERS-CoVexternal icon  
CDC's Dr. Susan Gerber provides an update on MERS, including when to evaluate
patients, how to collect appropriate specimens, and infection control.  
_Running Time 5:26 mins  
Date Released 06/23/2014_

Page last reviewed: August 2, 2019

Content source: National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases
(NCIRD), Division of Viral Diseases

home MERS Home

                  * About MERS expand
                    * Symptoms & Complications
                    * Transmission
                    * Prevention & Treatment
                  * People at Increased Risk for MERS
                  * FAQs
                  * MERS in the U.S.
                  * Healthcare Professionals expand
                    * Interim Guidance for Health Professionals
                    * Clinical Features
                    * Preparedness expand
                      * Healthcare Provider Checklist
                      * Healthcare Facility Checklist
                    * Infection Prevention and Control
                    * Monitoring and Movement Guidance
                    * Home Care and Isolation or Quarantine expand
                      * Prevent Spreading in Homes and Communities
                    * Air Transport
                  * Laboratories expand
                    * Laboratory Testing for MERS-CoV
                    * Guidelines for Clinical Specimens
                    * Lab Biosafety Guidelines
                  * Guidance for Travel
                  * Related Materials expand
                    * Photos

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                  * About CDC
                  * Jobs
                  * Funding
                  * Policies
                  * File Viewers & Players

                  * Privacy
                  * FOIA
                  * No Fear Act
                  * OIG
                  * Nondiscrimination
                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                  * Facebook
                  * Twitter
                  * Youtube
                  * Instagram
  

                  * Syndicate
                  * CDC TV
                  * RSS
                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                  * Facebook
                  * Twitter
                  * LinkedIn
                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

