

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Sexually Transmitted Diseases

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Adolescents, Technology and Reducing Risk for HIV, STDs and Pregnancy

Minus

Related Pages



![White Paper Cover](/std/life-stages-populations/Adol-cover.jpg)

  
View Complete White Paperpdf icon

Digital technology, including the internet, mobile phones, and gaming,
increasingly influences the lives of adolescents. Among youth aged 12-17
years:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 93% are online1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 75% have a mobile phone1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 97% play video games2

These technologies allow youth to engage in age-old behaviors such as
chatting, flirting, and dating in novel ways. They also provide youth with
anonymous avenues for seeking health information in general and sexual health,
in particular.

While technology has changed the way in which teens interact and access
information, they remain a vulnerable population when it comes to sexual risk.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The burden of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) among people aged 15-24 years accounts for nearly half of all STDs reported in the U.S.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The U.S. pregnancy rate among youth aged 12-19 years is one of the highest in the developed world.4

![Teens on steps](/std/life-stages-populations/teens-on-steps.jpg)

Adolescents are also especially vulnerable to sexual risk because they are
undergoing rapid cognitive, behavioral, emotional, and social development.
Targeting youth who are using emerging digital technology is important for
ensuring sexual health equity for adolescents.

This white paper is intended for practitioners and others who work with
adolescents and provides an overview about the ways in which digital
technology can be used to improve the sexual health of adolescents. It
includes:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * A brief summary of adolescent characteristics, including their demography, development, and sexual behavior
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * A basic overview of the new digital technologies and media that youth are using such as social networking sites, video sharing, blogs, instant messaging, mobile technology, and virtual worlds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * An examination of technology's potential for use in sexual health promotion, as well as the risks associated with misuse of digital technology.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Examples of innovative adolescent sexual health interventions that have used digital technology to improve their reach and effectiveness. ****

* * *

1\. Lenhart, A., Ling, R., Campbell, S., & Purcell, K. (2010). Teens and
mobile phonesexternal icon. Washington, DC: Pew Internet & American Life
Project.

2\. Lenhart, A., Kahne, J., Middaugh, E., Macgill, A. R., Evans, C., & Vitak,
J. (2008). Teens, video games, and civicsexternal icon. Washington, DC: Pew
Internet & American Life Project

3\. Weinstock, H., Berman, S., & Cates, W. (2004). Sexually transmitted
diseases among American youth: Incidence and prevalence estimates, 2000.
_Perspectives on Sexual and Reproductive Health_ , 36(1), 6-10.

4\. National Campaign to Prevent Teen and Unplanned Pregnancy. (2014, August).
_Teen Birth Rates: How Does the United States Compare?_

Page last reviewed: December 10, 2015

Content source: Division of STD Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention

home Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Diseases & Related Conditionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HIV/AIDS & STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STDs & Infertility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STDs during Pregnancyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Detailed Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment and Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Risk and Oral Sex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Trichomoniasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Other STDsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Laboratory Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Life Stages and Populationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescents and Young Adultsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adolescents and Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adolescents and STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gay, Bisexual and Other MSMplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gay Men & STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Just Diagnosed?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Which STD Tests Should I Get?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Lowdown Infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Management & Evaluation Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Effective Interventions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gap Assessment Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Outbreak Response Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Congenital Syphilis HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Disseminated Gonococcal Infection HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gonorrhea with Reduced SusceptibilityÂ HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LGV HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Practical Use of Program Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Program Operations Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * S.P.A.C.E. Monkey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Data Management & Information Technologyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Generic Information Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * BPMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Partner Servicesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Internet Partner Services Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * VCAmon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CS Webinar Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Projects & Initiativesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD PCHDplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * National Disease Intervention Specialist (DIS) Recognition Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project (GISP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Health Equityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Community Approaches to Reducing STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Indian Health Service Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SDMB Contacts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tools & Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Brochuresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Facts Brochures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ä¸­æ (Chinese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * KreyÃ²l (Haitian Creole)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ð ÑÑÑÐºÐ¸Ð¹ (Russian)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tiáº½ng ViÃªt (Vietnamese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Prevention Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Provider Pocket Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicated Content
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Videos and Podcastsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Letâs Talk About Sexual Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Safe in the City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Webinars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Widgets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Trainingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Prevention Coursesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Passport to Partner Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Advanced STD Intervention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Visual Case Analysis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Principles of STD Supervision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Intervention for Supervisors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Essentials of STD Supervision I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tailored Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Continuing Education Online
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SASSI â SAS Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD 101 in a Boxplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Script for _Sex in the City_ Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Clinical Slidesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Clinical Slides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Picture Cardsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Picture Cards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Treatment and Screeningplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Drug Noticesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gemifloxacin 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Procaine Penicillin G Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Erythromycin (0.5%) Ophthalmic Ointment Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Expedited Partner Therapyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gonorrhea Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Legal Status of EPT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Legal/Policy Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Prenatal Syphilis Screening Laws
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD QCS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Additional Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About the Division of STD Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fundingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Disease Intervention Training Centers (DITC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * National Network of STD Clinical Prevention Training Centers (NNPTC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * SSuN: Program and other NOFO Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Strategic Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive

Follow STD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Social_round_twitter twitter STD on Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Social_round_facebook facebook STD on Facebook

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

