

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Sexually Transmitted Diseases

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Health Alert Template for Gonorrhea with Reduced Susceptibility

Minus

Related Pages

Instructions

The template health alert below can be adapted and used by a health department
to notify local public health practitioners, clinicians, public health
laboratories, and public information officers about a case, cluster or isolate
of reduced susceptibility _N. gonorrhoeae_ in their jurisdiction. It is
customizable - you should use data from your jurisdiction to make it relevant
to your community. You can customize this article further by including
additional details about the public health event, why it is of public health
significance, and links to local resources.

## Summary



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * As of **[ _date_ ]**, **[ _health department_ ]** has identified **[ _insert description of case, cluster, or isolates, timeframe, location_ ]**. **[ _NOTE: Discuss what resistance patterns you are seeing and among what population._ ]**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC-recommended treatment is still highly effective for _gonorrhoeae_. To date, CDC has not identified a confirmed case of unsuccessful gonorrhea treatment (with CDC-recommended therapy) in the United States because of resistance to recommended therapy.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Providers should continue using CDC recommended treatment for gonorrhea **(250mg Ceftriaxone IM x 1 AND 1gm of azithromycin orally x 1** ) (see CDC treatment guidelines: https://www.cdc.gov/std/tg2015/gonorrhea.htm).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Report** **immediately** (within 24 hours) to the health department any **suspected cases of gonorrhea** **treatment failure** (i.e., someone with persistent symptoms or who remains infected despite recommended therapy) to **[ _Name_ ]** at **[ _Phone_ ]**, or after hours **[ _number_ ]**. The health department can provide guidance on treatment and testing recommendations.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **[ _Jurisdictions can consider including_ ]** Laboratories are encouraged to maintain all _gonorrhoeae_ isolates demonstrating reduced susceptibility to cephalosporins or azithromycin until further notice.



## Background



The **[ _health department_ ]**/ has identified **[ _description of case,
cluster, or isolates, timeframe, location_ ]**.

**[ _Insert statement about why this is of public health significance, which
may include characteristics of the public health event (e.g., the first such
case, an increase in cases, the largest cluster), that reduced susceptibility
was detected to one or both of the antibiotics in the only remaining CDC-
recommended treatment for gonorrhea (ceftriaxone plus azithromycin)._ ]**

_Neisseria gonorrhoeae_ , the bacterium causing gonorrhea, has progressively
developed resistance to the antibiotics prescribed to treat it. Following the
spread of gonococcal fluoroquinolone resistance, the cephalosporin antibiotics
have been the foundation of recommended treatment for gonorrhea. Based on
experience with other microbes that have developed antimicrobial resistance
rapidly, a theoretical basis exists for combination therapy using two
antimicrobials with different mechanisms of action (e.g., a cephalosporin plus
azithromycin) to improve treatment efficacy and potentially slow the emergence
and spread of resistance to cephalosporins. Health care providers should stay
up to date on CDC treatment guidelines. Following the recommended treatment
guidelines every time may help slow the emergence of antibiotic resistance.
The current CDC recommended treatment for gonorrhea is 250mg Ceftriaxone IM x
1 AND 1gm of azithromycin orally x 1 (administered simultaneously).
(https://www.cdc.gov/std/tg2015/gonorrhea.htm.)

Identification of _N. gonorrhoeae_ infections with reduced antibiotic
susceptibility can be a sign of emerging resistance.  CDC-recommended
treatment is still highly effective. To date, CDC has not identified a
confirmed case in the United States of unsuccessful gonorrhea treatment due to
resistance to recommended therapy.



## Actions for Providers/Recommendations:



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Screen for gonorrhea using nucleic acid amplification tests (NAATs): 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Women: annually in sexually active women <25 years old and women ≥25 with risk factors for STDs.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Men who have sex with men: annually in all sexually active men who have sex with men and every 3 to 6 months in those with increased risk. Screening should be performed at all anatomic sites of sexual exposure, using pharyngeal swabs, rectal swabs, and either urethral swabs or urine specimens.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Persons living with HIV: at initial HIV care visit and at least annually.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Pregnant women: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * During the first trimester if <25 years old (or ≥25 years old if at increased risk). 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * If infected, treat immediately and retest within 3 months.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Again during the third trimester if at increased risk (risk factors include a new partner, multiple partners, a sex partner with concurrent partners, a sex partner with an STD, any STD during pregnancy, and exchange of sex for food or housing).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Rescreen all persons with gonorrhea three months after the initial diagnosis of gonorrhea.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Conduct a test of cure if a case of pharyngeal gonorrhea is treated with an alternative regimen or symptoms persist following treatment.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Treat gonorrhea (urethritis, cervicitis, and extra-genital gonorrhea) with dual therapy: **ceftriaxone 250 mg intramuscularly once and azithromycin 1g orally once** whenever possible. (https://www.cdc.gov/std/tg2015/gonorrhea.htm) Ensure the patient's partners in the last 60 days are treated and tested. **[ _Include information on expedited partner therapy (EPT) if legal in your state._ ]**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Remain vigilant for patients not responding to CDC recommended treatment. Contact **[ _local STD program_ ]** if possible treatment failures identified by calling **[ _Name_ ]** at **[ _Phone_ ]**, after hours **[ _Phone_ ]**. Symptoms that persist after treatment should be evaluated by culture for _gonorrhoeae_ (with or without simultaneous NAAT), and any gonococci isolated should be tested for antimicrobial susceptibility.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * All persons who are diagnosed with gonorrhea should be screened for other STDs, including chlamydia, syphilis, and HIV. CDC STD screening recommendations can be found at https://www.cdc.gov/std/tg2015/screening-recommendations.htm



## Resources



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **_Insert any local resources_**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 2015 CDC STD treatment guidelines https://www.cdc.gov/std/tg2015/gonorrhea.htm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The 2015 STD Treatment (Tx) Guide mobile app is free and available for Apple devicesexternal icon and Android devicesexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC Antibiotic-Resistance Gonorrhea page https://www.cdc.gov/std/gonorrhea/arg/default.htm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * STD Prevention Resources https://www.cdc.gov/std/publications/STDPreventionResources_WEB.pdfpdf icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC Expedited Partner Therapy page https://www.cdc.gov/std/ept/default.htm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * National STD Curriculum https://www.std.uw.edu/external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * NNPTC Clinical consult https://www.stdccn.org/external icon

Page last reviewed: May 13, 2019

Content source: Division of STD Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention

home Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Diseases & Related Conditionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HIV/AIDS & STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STDs & Infertility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STDs during Pregnancyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Detailed Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment and Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Risk and Oral Sex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Trichomoniasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Other STDsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Laboratory Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Life Stages and Populationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescents and Young Adultsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adolescents and Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adolescents and STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gay, Bisexual and Other MSMplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gay Men & STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Just Diagnosed?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Which STD Tests Should I Get?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Lowdown Infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Management & Evaluation Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Effective Interventions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gap Assessment Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Outbreak Response Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Congenital Syphilis HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Disseminated Gonococcal Infection HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gonorrhea with Reduced SusceptibilityÂ HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LGV HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Practical Use of Program Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Program Operations Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * S.P.A.C.E. Monkey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Data Management & Information Technologyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Generic Information Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * BPMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Partner Servicesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Internet Partner Services Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * VCAmon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CS Webinar Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Projects & Initiativesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD PCHDplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * National Disease Intervention Specialist (DIS) Recognition Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project (GISP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Health Equityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Community Approaches to Reducing STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Indian Health Service Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SDMB Contacts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tools & Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Brochuresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Facts Brochures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ä¸­æ (Chinese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * KreyÃ²l (Haitian Creole)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ð ÑÑÑÐºÐ¸Ð¹ (Russian)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tiáº½ng ViÃªt (Vietnamese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Prevention Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Provider Pocket Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicated Content
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Videos and Podcastsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Letâs Talk About Sexual Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Safe in the City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Webinars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Widgets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Trainingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Prevention Coursesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Passport to Partner Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Advanced STD Intervention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Visual Case Analysis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Principles of STD Supervision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Intervention for Supervisors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Essentials of STD Supervision I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tailored Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Continuing Education Online
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SASSI â SAS Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD 101 in a Boxplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Script for _Sex in the City_ Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Clinical Slidesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Clinical Slides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Picture Cardsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Picture Cards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Treatment and Screeningplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Drug Noticesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gemifloxacin 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Procaine Penicillin G Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Erythromycin (0.5%) Ophthalmic Ointment Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Expedited Partner Therapyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gonorrhea Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Legal Status of EPT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Legal/Policy Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Prenatal Syphilis Screening Laws
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD QCS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Additional Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About the Division of STD Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fundingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Disease Intervention Training Centers (DITC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * National Network of STD Clinical Prevention Training Centers (NNPTC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * SSuN: Program and other NOFO Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Strategic Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive

Follow STD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Social_round_twitter twitter STD on Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Social_round_facebook facebook STD on Facebook

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

