

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# STD Prevention Success Stories

Minus

Related Pages

![Success Story](/std/products/success/images/312079-A_FS_AlaskaSyphilis-
STORY-508-1.png)

Curbing a Syphilis Outbreak in Alaska  
The Alaska Division of Public Health, CDC, and community members worked
together to get to the bottom of a syphilis outbreak in Anchorage.

For more than 50 years, CDC has worked with these programs to prevent the
spread of STDs across the United States. This page includes STD prevention
success stories made possible by these programs, as well as by CDC and other
federal agencies.

![Success Story](/std/products/success/images/congSyph2019.png)

Preventing Congenital Syphilis in the U.S.pdf icon  
Nine CDC-funded jurisdictions made great strides in establishing and
activating systems to help identify and prevent congenital syphilis in their
communities.

![Success Story](/std/products/success/images/nnptc-Aug2019-120px.png)

Community Connections, Nationwide Impacts: CDC's National Network of STD
Clinical Prevention Training Centers Delivers Vital Support to Clinicianspdf
icon  
This extensive educational and healthcare training system, with four national
and eight regional training centers throughout the U.S., ensures clinicians
have access to crucial clinical resources to help diagnose, treat, and prevent
STDs.

![Success Story](/std/products/success/images/Louisiana-
Syphilis_SuccessStories_April2019-small.png)

Combating Congenital Syphilis in Louisiana: Going Beyond the Numbers to Save
Babies' Livespdf icon  
From policy changes and case review boards to perinatal case managers and
provider engagement - the Louisiana Department of Health's STD/HIV Program is
pulling out all of the stops to tackle increases in syphilis and its impact on
women and babies in the state.

![Shaping Tomorrow’s Leaders Today: Community Sexual Health Program Cultivates
Leadership Skills in
Youth](/std/products/success/images/carsSuccessNov2018-120.png)

Shaping Tomorrow's Leaders Today: Community Sexual Health Program Cultivates
Leadership Skills in Youthpdf icon  
Baltimore City Health Department and CDC's Community Approaches to Reducing
Sexually Transmitted Diseases (or CARS) team up and empower young leaders to
reach their peers about sexual health.

![Keeping the Lights
On](/std/products/success/images/KeepingtheLightsOn_SuccessStory.png)

Keeping the Lights On: The New Project Helping STD Clinics Stay Openpdf icon  
Several states are pioneering more effective time and cost-saving options to
improve STD clinic operations.

![Healthy
Relationships](/std/products/success/images/HealthyRelationshipsSuccessStory.png)

Healthy Relationships, Healthy Life: College Workshops Empower Students to
Protect Their Own Sexual Healthpdf icon  
The _Healthy Relationships_ program is bringing STD prevention information to
college students, and helping to develop the next generation of student
leaders.

![SsUN Success Story](/std/products/success/images/ssun-success-thumbnail.png)

Shedding Light on Disease in the US: How STD Prevention Programs Benefit from
Strong Datapdf icon  
CDC and STD programs throughout the country are harnessing data to boost STD
prevention policies and practices.

![Success Story
Thumbnail](/std/products/success/images/SuccessStoryOutreachHIVandVH-1.png)

STD Outreach in Action: Crossing the Country to Stop an HIV & Viral Hepatitis
Outbreakpdf icon  
Two **Virginia** Disease Intervention Specialists (DIS) use their STD
prevention skills to help halt an outbreak in **Indiana**.

![Hawaii Success Story ](/std/products/success/images/Hawaii-SUCCESS-STORIES-
thumb.jpg)

Battling Antibiotic-Resistant Gonorrhea: A Timeline of Coordinated Teamwork.
pdf icon  
Disease Intervention Specialists, STD clinic staff, and lab staff in
**Hawaii** work together to identify and treat possible cases of drug
resistant gonorrhea.

![Innovative STD Prevention Campaigns at Work
](/std/products/success/images/Prevention-Campaigns-Thumb-120.jpg)

Innovative STD Prevention Campaigns at Workpdf icon

Here are two stories of STD programs in **Oregon** and **Alaska** that created
innovative, buzz-worthy STD prevention campaigns to raise awareness and
promote action in their communities.

![Cultivating Innovation in the Fight Against Antibiotic-Resistant
Gonorrhea](/std/products/success/images/Gonorrhea-Drug-Trial-Success-Story-
Thumb-120.jpg)

Cultivating Innovation in the Fight Against Antibiotic-Resistant Gonorrheapdf
icon

CDC, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and the National Institutes
of Health (NIH) collaborate to evaluate two untested combinations of
antibiotics to treat gonorrhea.

![Community Health Promotion in Action](/std/products/success/images/Health-
Promotion-Success-Story-thumb-120.jpg)

Community Health Promotion in Actionpdf icon

**Rhode Island** and **South Los Angeles** programs work closely with
community members to make strides in promoting and improving sexual health.

![Expedited Partner Therapy: Helping to Reduce Sexually Transmitted
Infections](/std/products/success/images/EPT-Success-Story-2016-thumb.jpg)

Expedited Partner Therapy: Helping to Reduce Sexually Transmitted
Infectionspdf icon

**Illinois** and **Chicago** working to expand the use of EPT to reach more
partners with the medication they need.

![Changing the Story of Syphilis](/std/products/success/images/Syphilis-
Success-120.jpg)

Changing the Story of Syphilispdf icon

Two stories of **Kansas** and **Washington State** public health programs
going the extra mile to prevent and treat syphilis.

![Connecting to Care, Building Hope](/std/products/success/images/HIV-
sucess-120.jpg)

Connecting to Care, Building Hopepdf icon

DIS success stories about HIV from **Hawaii** and **Tennessee.**

![Spotlight on STD Prevention and Control
Programs](/std/products/success/images/Spotlight-on-STD-Programs-120.jpg)

Spotlight on STD Prevention and Control Programspdf icon

Key STD prevention achievements from CDC and state/local health department
programs.

![Public Health and Primary Care: Forging Partnerships That
Matter](/std/products/success/images/Public-Health-Primary-
Care_Page_1-120.jpg)

Public Health and Primary Care: Forging Partnerships That Matterpdf icon

**California** and **New Hampshire** programs working with primary care
providers to improve the lives of people they serve.

![Success Story Preview Image](/std/products/success/images/PTC-Success-
Story_2016_thumbnail120.jpg)

STD Prevention Training Centers: Supporting the STD Workforcepdf icon  
Two stories of PTCs in **St. Louis** and **Denver** whose innovative projects
have gone above and beyond to meet the needs of providers.

Page last reviewed: October 15, 2019

Content source: Division of STD Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention

home Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Diseases & Related Conditionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HIV/AIDS & STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STDs & Infertility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STDs during Pregnancyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Detailed Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment and Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Risk and Oral Sex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Trichomoniasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Other STDsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Laboratory Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Life Stages and Populationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescents and Young Adultsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adolescents and Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adolescents and STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gay, Bisexual and Other MSMplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gay Men & STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Just Diagnosed?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Which STD Tests Should I Get?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Lowdown Infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Management & Evaluation Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Effective Interventions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gap Assessment Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Outbreak Response Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Congenital Syphilis HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Disseminated Gonococcal Infection HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gonorrhea with Reduced SusceptibilityÂ HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LGV HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Practical Use of Program Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Program Operations Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * S.P.A.C.E. Monkey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Data Management & Information Technologyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Generic Information Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * BPMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Partner Servicesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Internet Partner Services Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * VCAmon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CS Webinar Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Projects & Initiativesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD PCHDplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * National Disease Intervention Specialist (DIS) Recognition Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project (GISP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Health Equityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Community Approaches to Reducing STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Indian Health Service Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SDMB Contacts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tools & Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Brochuresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Facts Brochures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ä¸­æ (Chinese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * KreyÃ²l (Haitian Creole)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ð ÑÑÑÐºÐ¸Ð¹ (Russian)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tiáº½ng ViÃªt (Vietnamese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Prevention Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Provider Pocket Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicated Content
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Videos and Podcastsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Letâs Talk About Sexual Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Safe in the City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Webinars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Widgets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Trainingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Prevention Coursesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Passport to Partner Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Advanced STD Intervention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Visual Case Analysis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Principles of STD Supervision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Intervention for Supervisors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Essentials of STD Supervision I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tailored Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Continuing Education Online
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SASSI â SAS Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD 101 in a Boxplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Script for _Sex in the City_ Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Clinical Slidesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Clinical Slides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Picture Cardsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Picture Cards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Treatment and Screeningplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Drug Noticesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gemifloxacin 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Procaine Penicillin G Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Erythromycin (0.5%) Ophthalmic Ointment Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Expedited Partner Therapyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gonorrhea Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Legal Status of EPT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Legal/Policy Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Prenatal Syphilis Screening Laws
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD QCS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Additional Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About the Division of STD Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fundingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Disease Intervention Training Centers (DITC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * National Network of STD Clinical Prevention Training Centers (NNPTC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * SSuN: Program and other NOFO Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Strategic Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive

Follow STD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Social_round_twitter twitter STD on Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Social_round_facebook facebook STD on Facebook

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

