

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# STDs during Pregnancy - CDC Fact Sheet (Detailed)

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

#### STDs can complicate pregnancy and may have serious consequences for both
a woman and her developing baby. As a healthcare provider caring for pregnant
women, you play a key role in safeguarding the health of both a mother and her
unborn child.

Basic Version | **Detailed Fact Sheet**

Detailed fact sheets are intended for physicians and individuals with specific
questions about sexually transmitted diseases. Detailed fact sheets include
specific testing and treatment recommendations as well as citations so the
reader can research the topic more in depth.

Table of Recommendations | The Effects of STDs During Pregnancy

A critical component of appropriate prenatal care is ensuring that pregnant
patients are tested for STDs. Test your pregnant patients for STDs starting
early in their pregnancy and repeat close to delivery, as needed. To ensure
that the correct tests are being performed, we encourage you to have open,
honest conversations with your pregnant patients and, when possible, their sex
partners about symptoms they have experienced or are currently experiencing
and any high-risk sexual behaviors in which they engage. The table below
includes CDC's screening recommendations for pregnant women.

**Disease** | **CDC Recommendation**  
---|---  
**Chlamydia** | **_First prenatal visit:_** Screen all pregnant women <25
years of age and older pregnant women at increased risk for infection. **
_Third trimester:_** Rescreen if <25 years of age or at continued high risk.

**Risk Factors:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * New or multiple sex partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sex partner with concurrent partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sex partner who has a sexually-transmitted disease (STD)

**NOTE:** Pregnant women found to have chlamydial infection should have a
test-of-cure three to four weeks after treatment and then be retested within
three months.  
  
**Gonorrhea** | **_First prenatal visit:_** Screen all pregnant women <25
years of age and older pregnant women at increased risk for gonorrhea at first
prenatal visit. ** _Third trimester:_** Rescreen for women at continued high
risk.

**Risk factors:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Living in a high-morbidity area
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Previous or coexisting STI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * New or multiple sex partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Inconsistent condom use among persons not in mutually monogamous relationships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Exchanging sex for money or drugs  
**Syphilis** | **_First prenatal visit:_** Screen all pregnant women. **
_Early third trimester:_** Rescreen women who are

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * At high risk for syphilis,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Who live in areas with high numbers of syphilis cases, and/or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Who were not previously tested, or had a positive test in the first trimester.  
**Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)** | Evidence does not support routine screening for
BV in asymptomatic pregnant women at high or low risk for preterm delivery.  
**Trichomoniasis** | Evidence does not support routine screening for
trichomoniasis in asymptomatic pregnant women.  
**Herpes (HSV)** | Evidence does not support routine HSV-2 serologic testing
among asymptomatic pregnant women.  
**HIV** | **_First prenatal visit:_** Screen all pregnant women. ** _Third
trimester:_** Rescreen women at high risk for acquiring HIV infection.  
**Hepatitis B** **(HBV)** | **_First prenatal visit:_** Screen all pregnant
women. ** _Third trimester:_** Test those who were not screened prenatally,
those who engage in behaviors that put them at _high risk_ for infection, and
those with signs or symptoms of hepatitis at the time of admission to the
hospital for delivery.

**Risk Factors:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Having had more than one sex partner in the previous six months
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Evaluation or treatment for an STD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Recent or current injection-drug use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * An HBsAg-positive sex partner  
**Human Papillomavirus (HPV)** | There are no screening recommendations for
HPV.  
**Hepatitis C** **(HCV)** | **_First prenatal visit:_** Screen all pregnant
women at increased risk. **Risk Factors:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Past or current injection-drug use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Having received a blood transfusion before July 1992
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Receipt of unregulated tattoo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Long-term dialysis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Known exposure to HCV  
  


As a provider working with pregnant patients, it is important for you to know
the ways in which each STD can impact a woman and her developing baby. The
following sections provide details on the effects of specific STDs during a
woman's pregnancy, as well as links to Web pages with additional information.

### Bacterial Vaginosis

Bacterial vaginosis (BV), a common cause of vaginal discharge in women of
childbearing age, is a polymicrobial clinical syndrome resulting from a change
in the vaginal community of bacteria. Although BV is often not considered an
STD, it has been linked to sexual activity. Women may have no symptoms or may
complain of a foul-smelling, fishy, vaginal discharge. BV during pregnancy has
been associated with serious pregnancy complications, including premature
rupture of the membranes surrounding the baby in the uterus, preterm labor,
premature birth, chorioamnionitis, as well as endometritis.8  While there is
no evidence to support screening for BV in pregnant women at high risk for
preterm delivery, **21** symptomatic women should be evaluated and treated.
There are no known direct effects of BV on the newborn.

### Chlamydia

Chlamydia is the most common sexually-transmitted bacterium in the United
States.4 Although the majority of chlamydial infections (including those in
pregnant women) do not have symptoms, infected women may have abnormal vaginal
discharge, bleeding after sex, or itching/burning with urination. Untreated
chlamydial infection has been linked to problems during pregnancy, including
preterm labor, premature rupture of membranes, and low birth weight.5 The
newborn may also become infected during delivery as the baby passes through
the birth canal. Exposed newborns can develop eye and lung infections.

### Gonorrhea

Gonorrhea is a common STD in the United States. Untreated gonococcal infection
in pregnancy has been linked to miscarriages, premature birth and low birth
weight, premature rupture of membranes, and chorioamnionitis.6 Gonorrhea can
also infect an infant during delivery as the infant passes through the birth
canal. If untreated, infants can develop eye infections. Because gonorrhea can
cause problems in both the mother and her baby, it is important for providers
to accurately identify the infection, treat it with effective antibiotics, and
closely follow up to make sure that the infection has been cured.

### Hepatitis B

Hepatitis Bpdf icon is a liver infection caused by the hepatitis B virus
(HBV). A mother can transmit the infection to her baby during pregnancy. While
the risk of an infected mother passing HBV to her baby varies, depending on
when she becomes infected, the greatest risk happens when mothers become
infected close to the time of delivery.14 Infected newborns also have a high
risk (up to 90%) of becoming chronic HBV carriers themselves.15 Infants who
have a lifelong infection with HBV are at an increased risk for developing
chronic liver disease or liver cancer later in life. Approximately 25% of
infants who develop chronic HBV infection will eventually die from chronic
liver disease.13 By screening your pregnant patients for the infection and
providing treatment to at-risk infants shortly after birth, you can help
prevent mother-to-child transmission of HBV. Information on mother-to-child
transmission of HBV can be found at
https://www.cdc.gov/hepatitis/HBV/PerinatalXmtn.htm.

### Hepatitis C

Hepatitis C is a liver infection caused by the hepatitis C virus (HCV), and
can be passed from an infected mother to her child during pregnancy. In
general, an infected mother will transmit the infection to her baby 10% of the
time, but the chances are higher in certain subgroups, such as women who are
also infected with HIV.16 In some studies, infants born to HCV-infected women
have been shown to have an increased risk for being small for gestational age,
premature, and having a low birth weight.15 Newborn infants with HCV infection
usually do not have symptoms, and a majority will clear the infection without
any medical help.

### Herpes Simplex Virus

Herpes Simplex Virus (HSV) has two distinct virus types that can infect the
human genital tract, HSV-1 and HSV-2. Infections of the newborn can be of
either type, but most are caused by HSV-2. Generally, the symptoms of genital
herpes are similar in pregnant and in nonpregnant women; however, the major
concern regarding HSV infection relates to complications linked to infection
of the newborn. Although transmission may occur during pregnancy and after
delivery, the risk of transmission to the neonate from an infected mother is
high among women who acquire genital herpes near the time of delivery and low
among women with recurrent herpes or who acquire the infection during the
first half of pregnancy. **18** HSV infection can have very serious effects on
newborns, especially if the mother's first outbreak occurred during the third
trimester. Cesarean section is recommended for all women in labor with active
genital herpes lesions or early symptoms, such as vulvar pain and
itching.19-20

### Human Immunodeficiency Virus

Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is the virus that causes acquired immune
deficiency syndrome, or AIDS. HIV destroys specific blood cells that are
crucial to helping the body fight diseases. According to CDC's 2017 HIV
surveillance data, women make up 19% of all adults and adolescents living with
diagnosed HIV infection in the United States.2 The most common ways that HIV
passes from mother to child are during pregnancy, labor, and delivery, or
through breastfeeding. However, when HIV is diagnosed before or during
pregnancy and appropriate steps are taken, the risk of mother-to-child
transmission can be lowered to less than 2%.3 A mother who knows early in her
pregnancy that she is HIV-positive has more time to consult with you--her
healthcare provider--and decide on effective ways to protect her health and
that of her unborn baby.

### Human Papillomavirus

Human papillomaviruses (HPV) are viruses that most commonly involve the lower
genital tract, including the cervix, vagina, and external genitalia. Genital
warts frequently increase in number and size during pregnancy. Genital warts
often appear as small cauliflower-like clusters which may burn or itch. If a
woman has genital warts during pregnancy, you may elect to delay treatment
until after delivery. When large or spread out, genital warts can complicate a
vaginal delivery. In cases where there are large genital warts that are
blocking the birth canal, a cesarean section may be recommended. Infection of
the mother may be linked to the development of laryngeal papillomatosis in the
newborn--a rare, noncancerous growth in the larynx .17

### Syphilis

Syphilis is primarily a sexually-transmitted disease, but it may be
transmitted to a baby by an infected mother during pregnancy. Transmission of
syphilis to a developing baby can lead to a serious multisystem infection,
known as congenital syphilis. Recently, there has been a sharp increase in the
number of congenital syphilis casespdf icon in the United States. Syphilis has
been linked to premature births, stillbirths, and, in some cases, death
shortly after birth.7 Untreated infants that survive tend to develop problems
in multiple organs, including the brain, eyes, ears, heart, skin, teeth, and
bones.

### Trichomoniasis

Vaginal infection due to the sexually-transmitted parasite _Trichomonas
vaginalis_ is very common. Although most people report no symptoms, others
complain of itching, irritation, unusual odor, discharge, and pain during
urination or sex. If you have a pregnant patient with symptoms of
trichomoniasis, she should be evaluated for _Trichomonas vaginalis_ and
treated appropriately. Infection in pregnancy has been linked to premature
rupture of membranes, preterm birth, and low birth weight infants.12 Rarely,
the female newborn can acquire the infection when passing through the birth
canal during delivery and have vaginal discharge after birth.

Screening and prompt treatment are recommended at least annually for all HIV-
infected women, based on the high prevalence of _T. vaginalis_ infection, the
increased risk of pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) associated with this
infection, and the ability of treatment to reduce genital tract viral load and
vaginal HIV shedding. This includes HIV-infected women who are pregnant, as
_T. vaginalis_ infection is a risk factor for vertical transmission of HIV.
For other pregnant women, screening may be considered at the discretion of the
treating clinician, as the benefit of routine screening for pregnant women has
not been established. **22** Screening might be considered for persons
receiving care in high-prevalence settings (e.g., STD clinics or correctional
facilities) and for asymptomatic persons at high risk for infection. Decisions
about screening might be informed by local epidemiology of _T. vaginalis_
infection. However, data are lacking on whether screening and treatment for
asymptomatic trichomoniasis in high prevalence settings or persons at high
risk can reduce any adverse health events and health disparities or reduce
community burden of infection. **23**

### STD Treatment during Pregnancy

STDs, such as chlamydia, gonorrhea, syphilis, and trichomoniasis can all be
treated and cured with antibiotics that are safe to take during pregnancy.
Viral STDs, including genital herpes, hepatitis B, and HIV cannot be cured.
However, in some cases these infections can be treated with antiviral
medications or other preventive measures to reduce the risk of passing the
infection to the baby. Detailed information on the management of specific STDs
during pregnancy can be found in CDC's 2015 STD Treatment Guidelines.

### STD Prevention during Pregnancy

After obtaining a sexual history from your patient, you should encourage risk
reduction by providing prevention counseling. The most reliable way to avoid
transmission of STDs is to abstain from oral, vaginal, and anal sex or to be
in a long-term, mutually monogamous relationship with a partner known to be
uninfected. For patients who are being treated for an STD other than HIV (or
whose partners are undergoing treatment), counseling that encourages
abstinence from sexual intercourse until completion of the entire course of
medication is crucial.  Latex male condoms, when used consistently and
correctly, can reduce the risk of transmitting or acquiring STDs and HIV.

### References

1\. Institute of Medicine. The Hidden Epidemic: Confronting Sexually
Transmitted Diseasesexternal icon. Eng TR, Butler WT, eds. Washington:
National Academy Press. 1997.

2.CDC. Diagnoses of HIV infection in the United States and dependent areas,
2017. HIV Surveillance Report 2018;29.pdf icon

3\. Panel on Treatment of HIV-Infected Pregnant Women and Prevention of
Perinatal Transmission. Recommendations for use of antiretroviral drugs in
pregnant HIV-1-infected women for maternal health and interventions to reduce
perinatal HIV transmission in the United States; 2012 Jul 31:1-235.

4\. CDC. Sexually Transmitted Disease Surveillance, 2018.  Atlanta, GA:
Department of Health and Human Services; October 2019.

5\. Andrews WW, Goldenberg RL, Mercer B, Iams J, Meis P, Moawad A et al. The
Preterm Prediction Study: association of second-trimester genitourinary
Chlamydia infection with subsequent spontaneous preterm birth. Am J Obstet
Gynecolo 2000;183;662-8.

6\. Alger LS, Lovchik JC, Heel JR, Blackmon LR, Crenshaw Mc. The association
of Chlamydia trachomatis, Neisseira gonorrhoeae, and group B streptococci with
preterm rupture of the membranes and pregnancy outcome. Am J Obstet Gynecol
1988;159(2):397-404.

7\. Genc M, Ledger WJ. Syphilis in pregnancyexternal icon. Sex Transm Inf
2000;76:73.

8\. Nelson DB, Macones G. Bacterial vaginosis in pregnancy: current findings
and future directions. Epidemiolo Rev 2002;24(2):102-8.

9\. Hauth JC, Goldenberg RL, Andrews WW, Dubard MB, Copper RL. Reduced
incidence of preterm delivery with metronidazole and erythromycin in women
with bacterial vaginosis. N Engl J Med 1995;333:1732-6.

10\. McDonald HM, O'Loughlin JA, Vigneswaran R, Jolley PT, Harvey JA. Impact
of metronidazole therapy on preterm birth in women with bacterial vaginosis
flora (Gardnerella vaginalis): a randomized, placebo controlled trial. Br J
Obstet Gynecol 1997;104:1391-7.

11\. Morales WJ, Schorr S, Albritton J. Effect of metronidazole in patients
with preterm birth in preceding pregnancy and bacterial vaginosis: a placebo-
controlled, double blind study. Am J Obstet Gynecol 1994;171:345-9.

12\. Cotch MF, Pastorek JG II, Nugent RP, Hillier SL, Gibbs RS, Martin DH, et
al: Trichomonas vaginalis associated with low birth weight and preterm
delivery. Sex Transm Dis 1997;24(6):353-60.

13\. Hutto C, Arvin A, Jacobs R, Steele R, Stagno S, Lyrene R, et al.
Intrauterine herpes simplex virus infections. J Pediatr 1987:110:97-101.

14\. Sookoian S. Liver disease during pregnancy: acute viral hepatitis. Ann
Hepatol 2006; 5:231.

15\. Stevens CE, Toy PT, Tong MJ, et al. Perinatal hepatitis B virus
transmission in the United States. Prevention by passive-active immunization.
JAMA 1985; 253:1740.

16\. Yeung LT, King SM, Roberts EA. Mother-to-infant transmission of hepatitis
C virus. Hepatology 2001; 34:223.

17\. Silverberg MJ, Thorsen P, Lindeberg H, Grant LA, Shah KV. Condyloma in
pregnancy is strongly predictive of juvenile-onset recurrent respiratory
papillomatosis. Obstet Gynecolo 2003;101(4):645-52.

18\. Brown Z A, Wald A, Morrow R A, Selke S, Zeh J, Corey L. (2003) Effect of
serologic status and cesarean delivery on transmission rates of herpes simplex
virus from mother to infant. _JAMA_ , _289_ (2), 203-209.

19\. American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG). ACOG Practice
Bulletin. Clinical management guidelines for obstetrician-gynecologists. No.
82 June 2007. Management of herpes in pregnancy. Obstetrics and Gynecology,
2007. 109(6): 1489-1498.

20\. Workowski KA, Bolan GA, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Sexually Transmitted Diseases Treatment Guidelines, 2015pdf icon. _MMWR_.
2015; 64:1-137.

21\.  US Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for bacterial vaginosis in
pregnancy to prevent preterm delivery: U.S. Preventive Services Task Force
recommendation statement. _Ann Intern Med._ 2008;148:214-9.

22\. Meites E, Gaydos CA, Hobbs MM, Kissinger P, Nyirjesy P, Schwebke JR, et
al. Review of Evidence-based Care of Symptomatic Trichomoniasis and
Asymptomatic _Trichomonas vaginalis_ Infections. _Clinical Infectious
Diseases_. 2015; 61:S837-48.

23\. Workowski KAexternal icon, Bolan GAexternal icon, Centers for Disease
Control and Preventionexternal icon. Sexually Transmitted Diseases Treatment
Guidelines, 2015. _MMWR_.external icon 2015; 64:1-137.

Page last reviewed: February 11, 2016

Content source: Division of STD Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention

home Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Diseases & Related Conditionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HIV/AIDS & STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STDs & Infertility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STDs during Pregnancyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Detailed Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment and Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Risk and Oral Sex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Trichomoniasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Other STDsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Laboratory Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Life Stages and Populationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescents and Young Adultsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adolescents and Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adolescents and STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gay, Bisexual and Other MSMplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gay Men & STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Just Diagnosed?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Which STD Tests Should I Get?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Lowdown Infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Management & Evaluation Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Effective Interventions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gap Assessment Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Outbreak Response Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Congenital Syphilis HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Disseminated Gonococcal Infection HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gonorrhea with Reduced SusceptibilityÂ HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LGV HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Practical Use of Program Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Program Operations Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * S.P.A.C.E. Monkey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Data Management & Information Technologyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Generic Information Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * BPMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Partner Servicesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Internet Partner Services Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * VCAmon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CS Webinar Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Projects & Initiativesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD PCHDplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * National Disease Intervention Specialist (DIS) Recognition Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project (GISP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Health Equityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Community Approaches to Reducing STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Indian Health Service Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SDMB Contacts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tools & Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Brochuresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Facts Brochures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ä¸­æ (Chinese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * KreyÃ²l (Haitian Creole)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ð ÑÑÑÐºÐ¸Ð¹ (Russian)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tiáº½ng ViÃªt (Vietnamese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Prevention Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Provider Pocket Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicated Content
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Videos and Podcastsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Letâs Talk About Sexual Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Safe in the City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Webinars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Widgets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Trainingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Prevention Coursesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Passport to Partner Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Advanced STD Intervention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Visual Case Analysis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Principles of STD Supervision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Intervention for Supervisors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Essentials of STD Supervision I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tailored Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Continuing Education Online
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SASSI â SAS Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD 101 in a Boxplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Script for _Sex in the City_ Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Clinical Slidesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Clinical Slides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Picture Cardsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Picture Cards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Treatment and Screeningplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Drug Noticesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gemifloxacin 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Procaine Penicillin G Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Erythromycin (0.5%) Ophthalmic Ointment Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Expedited Partner Therapyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gonorrhea Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Legal Status of EPT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Legal/Policy Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Prenatal Syphilis Screening Laws
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD QCS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Additional Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About the Division of STD Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fundingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Disease Intervention Training Centers (DITC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * National Network of STD Clinical Prevention Training Centers (NNPTC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * SSuN: Program and other NOFO Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Strategic Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive

STDs Home Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Genital Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * HIV/AIDS & STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * STDs & Infertility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * STDs & Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Trichomoniasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Other STDs

Follow STD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Social_round_twitter twitter STD on Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Social_round_facebook facebook STD on Facebook

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

