

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Legal Status of Expedited Partner Therapy (EPT)

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Introduction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Explanation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Limitations

The information presented here is not legal advice, nor is it a comprehensive
analysis of all the legal provisions that could implicate the legality of EPT
in a given jurisdiction. The data and assessment are intended to be used as a
tool to assist state and local health departments as they determine locally
appropriate ways to control STDs. The information is not intended to be used
for research purposes.

The "status as of" date on every state's page reflects the most recent date
that any law referenced on that page went into effect, even minor changes. To
view information for each state, refer to the map or click on a state in the
table below. This map is updated on an annual basis. It was last updated in
June 2019. Summary Totals are here.

![Map. Refer to table below.](/std/ept/legal/images/ept-map.png)

This is a table caption for compliance. Ignore it please.
![permissible](https://www.cdc.gov/std/ept/legal/images/permissable-2.gif) EPT
is permissible in 44 states: | ![potentially
allowable](https://www.cdc.gov/std/ept/legal/images/possible-2.gif) EPT is
potentially allowable in 5 states: |
![prohibited](/std/ept/legal/images/prohibited-2_1.gif) EPT is prohibited in 1
states:  
---|---|---  
Alaska  
Arizona  
Arkansas  
California  
Colorado  
Connecticut  
Delaware  
Florida  
Georgia  
Hawaii  
Idaho  
Illinois  
Indiana  
Iowa  
Kentucky  
Louisiana  
Maine  
Maryland  
Massachusetts  
Michigan  
Minnesota  
Mississippi  
Missouri  
Montana  
Nebraska  
Nevada  
New Hampshire  
New Mexico  
New York  
North Carolina  
North Dakota  
Ohio  
Oregon  
Pennsylvania  
Rhode Island  
Tennessee  
Texas  
Utah  
Vermont  
Virginia  
Washington  
West Virginia  
Wisconsin  
Wyoming  
EPT is permissible in the District of Columbia.  
EPT is permissible in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. |
Alabama  
Kansas  
New Jersey  
Oklahoma  
South Dakota  
EPT is potentially allowable in Puerto Rico and Guam. | South Carolina  
  
###  Introduction

Assuring treatment of the sex partners of persons with sexually transmitted
diseases (STD) has been a central component of prevention and control of
bacterial STDs in the United States for decades. Traditional practices to
inform, evaluate and treat sex partners of persons infected with STDs have
relied upon patients or health care providers to notify partners of infected
persons of their exposure to an STD. Initially developed to help control
syphilis, partner management became widely recommended for gonorrhea,
chlamydial infection and, most recently, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)
infection. However, for STDs other than syphilis, partner management based on
provider referral is rarely assured, while patient referral has had only
modest success in assuring partner treatment.

An alternative approach to assuring treatment of partners is expedited partner
therapy (EPT). EPT is the delivery of medications or prescriptions by persons
infected with an STD to their sex partners without clinical assessment of the
partners. Clinicians (e.g., physicians, nurse practitioners, physician
assistants, pharmacists, public health workers) provide patients with
sufficient medications directly or via prescription for the patients and their
partners. After evaluating multiple studies involving EPT, CDC concluded that
EPT is a "useful option" to further partner treatment, particularly for male
partners of women with chlamydia or gonorrheapdf icon. In August 2006, CDC
recommended the practice of EPT for certain populations and specific
conditions and CDC continues to recommend it in Sexually Transmitted Diseases
Treatment Guidelines, 2010.

Throughout discussions of EPT, the legal status of the practice remained an
area of uncertainty. To assist state and local STD programs in their efforts
to implement EPT as an additional partner services tool, CDC collaborated with
the Center for Law and the Public's Healthexternal icon at Georgetown and
Johns Hopkins Universities to assess the legal framework concerning EPT across
all 50 states and other jurisdictions (the District of Columbia and Puerto
Rico). The primary research objective was to conceptualize, frame, and
identify legal provisions that implicate a clinician's ability to provide a
prescription for a patient's sex partner, without prior evaluation of that
partner, for purposes of treating an STD (specifically chlamydia or
gonorrhea). The results of this research, with explanatory information for six
key areas of inquiry and summary conclusions for each state are presented
here.

The information presented here is not legal advice, nor is it a comprehensive
analysis of all the legal provisions that could implicate the legality of EPT
in a given jurisdiction. Rather, it provides a comparative snapshot of legal
provisions that may highlight legislative, regulatory, judicial laws and
policies concerning EPT based on currently available information. This
snapshot is subject to change. Measuring the legal weight of non-binding legal
sources, such as policy guidance documents or administrative decisions, must
be done locally within the context of applicable statutes and regulations. The
data and assessment are intended to be used as a tool to assist state and
local health departments as they determine locally appropriate ways to control
STDs. Assessment of local statutes was not undertaken, with the exception of
the District of Columbia. Assessment of tribal laws for sovereign nations was
also not undertaken.

__  Top of Page

###  Explanation

Sections I - VII categorize key legal provisions implicating EPT as follows:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. **Existing statutes/regulations that specifically address the ability of authorized health care providers to provide a prescription for a patient 's partner(s) without prior evaluation for certain STDs.** Section I includes statutory or regulatory provisions that specifically address whether a health care provider may provide a prescription for a patient's partner without a prior evaluation or relationship with the partner. While these provisions may be limited in their application, they may effectually either authorize or prohibit EPT in specific circumstances. For example, a few states feature statutes or regulations that directly authorize some health care professionals to conduct EPT. These laws typically specify the STDs for which EPT is authorized as well as the health care professionals who are authorized to conduct EPT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2. **Specific judicial decisions concerning EPT (or like practices).** Section II includes judicial decisions (case law) that implicate the legality of EPT or "like practices" (practices that are legally similar to EPT). Case law decisions are legally binding in their jurisdictions and set legal precedent for future decisions.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3. **Specific administrative opinions by the Attorney General or medical or pharmacy boards concerning EPT (or like practices).** Section III includes publicly-available decisions by state administrative bodies that discuss the legality of EPT or like practices. These decisions can include opinions of the state Attorney General, actions by medical disciplinary boards, advisory decisions or resolutions of medical or pharmacy boards, or general policy guidelines. Attorney General opinions are only binding on the party who sought the opinion, but the opinion may indicate how EPT may be regarded in the future.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4. **Laws that incorporate via reference guidelines as acceptable practices (including EPT).** Section V includes legal provisions that allow public health or clinical practices to be incorporated by reference through specific guidelines. Even if the current legal status of EPT in a jurisdiction is unclear, EPT could become legally permissible if a designated published guideline, agency, or official adopted EPT as an acceptable treatment method. The contents of these guidelines are incorporated by reference, which means they have the force of law in that jurisdiction. Legalization of EPT may thus be furthered by consulting with the organization that publishes the guideline or the agency official to recognize EPT as an acceptable treatment method for specific STDs provided such recommendation does not conflict with other legal provisions. The following abbreviations are used in this column of the table: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * "CDC STD Treatment Guidelines" refers to _Sexually Transmitted Diseases Treatment Guidelines_ published by CDC through its Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (which explicitly supports the use of EPT for certain STDs and populations);
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * "APHA's CCD Manual" refers to the _Control of Communicable Diseases in Man_ published by the American Public Health Association; and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * "AAP's Red Book" refers to the _Red Book: Report of the Committee on Infectious Diseases_ published by the American Academy of Pediatrics.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5. **Prescription requirements.** Section VI includes statutory or regulatory provisions that relate to prescription drug laws (other than for controlled substances) in each jurisdiction to the extent they may impact EPT. This may include: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1. laws that require prescription orders or labels to indicate identifying information about the person for whom the prescription is intended. If identifying information is not required, it may facilitate a physician writing a prescription for a patient to deliver to her partner without identifying the partner. While these laws do not necessarily implicate the legality of EPT, they affect how EPT may be implemented in practice. If patient-identifying information is required, a physician may not be legally permitted to provide a blank prescription or an "extra dose" for the patient to deliver to the partner. Instead, such a prescription may have to be made out in the partner's name;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2. laws that concern the pharmacists' need to verify a physician-patient relationship or that an individual has been examined by a physician prior to dispensing pharmaceutical products; or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3. laws that require a pharmacist to ensure that drugs are dispensed to an ultimate user of the prescription.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6. **Assessment of the legal status of EPT.** Section VII provides an assessment whether the various laws of the jurisdiction tend to support or reject the legality of EPT. One of three conclusions is indicated for each jurisdiction:  
![permissible](https://www.cdc.gov/STD/ept/legal/images/permissable-2.gif) -
**EPT is permissible** for certain practitioners and conditions;  
![potentially
allowable](https://www.cdc.gov/STD/ept/legal/images/possible-2.gif) - **EPT is
potentially allowable** subject to additional actions or policies (this may
include specific interpretations of inconsistent or amorphous provisions,
supporting policies consistent with legal authorization, or incorporation by
reference into treatment guidelines); or  
![prohibited](/std/ept/legal/images/prohibited-2_1.gif) - **EPT is likely
prohibited**.Each of these initial conclusions is followed by brief comments
providing some justification for the assessment.

__  Top of Page

###  Limitations

The information presented here is not legal advice, nor is it a comprehensive
analysis of all the legal provisions that could implicate the legality of EPT
in a given jurisdiction. Rather, it provides a comparative snapshot of legal
provisions that may highlight legislative, regulatory, judicial laws and
policies concerning EPT based on currently available information. This
snapshot is subject to change. Measuring the legal weight of non-binding legal
sources, such as policy guidance documents or administrative decisions, must
be done locally within the context of applicable statutes and regulations. The
data and assessment are intended to be used as a tool to assist state and
local health departments as they determine locally appropriate ways to control
STDs. The data and assessment are not intended to be used for research
purposes; dates are provided for the most recent legal change regardless of
whether it resulted in a changed status. Assessment of local statutes was not
undertaken, with the exception of the District of Columbia. Assessment of
tribal laws for sovereign nations was also not undertaken.

__  Top of Page

#### Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Expedited Partner Therapy Legal/Policy Toolkit

Page last reviewed: March 24, 2020

Content source: Division of STD Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention

home Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Diseases & Related Conditionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HIV/AIDS & STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STDs & Infertility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STDs during Pregnancyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Detailed Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment and Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Risk and Oral Sex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Trichomoniasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Other STDsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Laboratory Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Life Stages and Populationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescents and Young Adultsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adolescents and Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adolescents and STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gay, Bisexual and Other MSMplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gay Men & STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Just Diagnosed?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Which STD Tests Should I Get?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Lowdown Infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Management & Evaluation Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Effective Interventions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gap Assessment Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Outbreak Response Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Congenital Syphilis HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Disseminated Gonococcal Infection HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gonorrhea with Reduced SusceptibilityÂ HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LGV HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Practical Use of Program Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Program Operations Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * S.P.A.C.E. Monkey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Data Management & Information Technologyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Generic Information Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * BPMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Partner Servicesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Internet Partner Services Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * VCAmon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CS Webinar Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Projects & Initiativesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD PCHDplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * National Disease Intervention Specialist (DIS) Recognition Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project (GISP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Health Equityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Community Approaches to Reducing STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Indian Health Service Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SDMB Contacts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tools & Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Brochuresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Facts Brochures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ä¸­æ (Chinese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * KreyÃ²l (Haitian Creole)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ð ÑÑÑÐºÐ¸Ð¹ (Russian)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tiáº½ng ViÃªt (Vietnamese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Prevention Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Provider Pocket Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicated Content
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Videos and Podcastsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Letâs Talk About Sexual Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Safe in the City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Webinars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Widgets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Trainingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Prevention Coursesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Passport to Partner Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Advanced STD Intervention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Visual Case Analysis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Principles of STD Supervision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Intervention for Supervisors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Essentials of STD Supervision I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tailored Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Continuing Education Online
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SASSI â SAS Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD 101 in a Boxplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Script for _Sex in the City_ Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Clinical Slidesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Clinical Slides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Picture Cardsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Picture Cards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Treatment and Screeningplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Drug Noticesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gemifloxacin 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Procaine Penicillin G Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Erythromycin (0.5%) Ophthalmic Ointment Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Expedited Partner Therapyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gonorrhea Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Legal Status of EPT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Legal/Policy Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Prenatal Syphilis Screening Laws
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD QCS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Additional Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About the Division of STD Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fundingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Disease Intervention Training Centers (DITC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * National Network of STD Clinical Prevention Training Centers (NNPTC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * SSuN: Program and other NOFO Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Strategic Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive

Contact Us:

The dynamic nature of EPT and its associated legal and policy implications
means that information may change, and there may be links on these web pages
that no longer work properly.

We welcome your suggestions for making this tool more useful to you and invite
your assistance in pointing out inconsistencies or non-working links.

We also welcome updates from you about progress in your state or local area.

For comments, feedback and updates, please contact CDC-INFO:
https://www.cdc.gov/cdc-info/.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Social_round_twitter twitter STD on Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Social_round_facebook facebook STD on Facebook

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

