

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Videos and Podcasts

Minus

Related Pages

![thumbnail](/std/products/images/thumbnail-laura-2019.png)

### A Devastating Surge in Congenital Syphilis: How Can We Stop It?external
icon

CDC expert commentary featuring Dr. Laura H. Bachmann, MD, MPH on rising
congenital syphilis rates and what healthcare providers can do to help
(January 23, 2019)



![Gail Bolan](/std/products/images/gail2018-79.png)

### Protect Patients from a Surge in STDsexternal icon

CDC expert commentary featuring Dr. Gail Bolan, Director of CDC's Division of
STD Prevention, on what healthcare providers can do about rising STD rates
(January 16, 2018)



![Syphilis Video](/std/images/syphWhiteboard-79.png)

### Reducing Rising Syphilis Rates: A Healthcare Provider's Role

This video walks healthcare providers through the three key actions that they
can take to help reverse the rising syphilis rates: Talk, Test, and Treat.
(July 11, 2017)



![Gonorrhea - Down to One. Thumbnail for
cdc.gov/std/](/std/gonorrhea/arg/videos/DownToOne79.png)

### Drug-Resistant Gonorrhea: An Urgent Public Health Issue

This animation details the history of drug-resistant gonorrhea in the United
States, the dangers of untreatable gonorrhea, and why this issue must remain a
top public health priority. (June 1, 2017)



![Gail Biolan, MD](/std/products/images/GailBolan.jpg)

### Emerging Drug-Resistant Gonorrhea: What's New and What Now?external icon

Dr. Gail Bolan, Director of CDC's DSTDP, discusses latest trends in drug
resistant gonorrhea and provides an overview of treatment for this common
sexually transmitted disease. (March 6, 2017)



![KABI Chronicles: The Edge Motion Comic
Series](/std/products/images/motioncomicthumb.jpg)

### KABI Chronicles: The Edge Motion Comic Series

An original, comic-based, serial drama following the lives of nine fictional
high school and college friends as they navigate young adulthood, while also
educating viewers about HIV and STDs.



![](/std/images/sarahKidd79.jpg)

### Congenital Syphilis Is on the Rise? Reviewing Prevention Stepsexternal
icon

CDC Expert Commentary featuring Sarah Kidd, MD, MPH (July 19, 2016)



![Jonathan Mermin, MD](/std/products/images/DrMermin-2016.jpg)

### A Clinician's Role in Protecting the Health of Gay, Bisexual, and other
Men who Have Sex with Men

Dr. Jonathan Mermin, National Center for HIV, AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD and
TB Prevention, Director, discusses how clinicians can protect the health of
their gay and bisexual male patients with the simple actions of talk, test,
and treat.



![Dr Kimberly Workowski](/std/products/images/WorkowskiMedscape2015-79.jpg)

### New STD Guidelines for 2015external icon

CDC Expert Commentary featuring Kimberly Workowski, MD (October 5, 2015)



![Lauri Markowitz, MD](/std/products/images/Markowitz.jpg)

### Common Questions About 9-Valent HPV Vaccineexternal icon

CDC Expert Commentary featuring Lauri Markowitz, MD (June 22, 2015)  



### ![Dr. Robyn Neblett Fanfair, Medical Officer in the Division of STD
Prevention at the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention](/STD/products/images/fanfair.jpg)What You Need to Know About
Genital Herpesexternal icon

Dr. Robyn Neblett Fanfair, Medical Officer in DSTDP, summarizes important
facts about genital herpes, including information on how herpes is spread,
symptoms of the infection, and ways it is treated and prevented. (April 30,
2013)



### ![Dr. Monica Patton, Medical Officer in the Division of STD Prevention at
the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention](/STD/products/images/patton.jpg)What You Need to Know About
Gonorrheaexternal icon

Dr. Monica Patton, Medical Officer in DSTDP, summarizes the important facts
that you need to know about gonorrhea, including information on the number of
people infected with gonorrhea each year, how it is spread, symptoms of the
infection, and treatment. (April 30, 2013)



### ![young woman](/STD/Be-Smart-Be-Well/images/TalkSex-small.jpg)Let's Talk
About Sexual Health

Video for doctors and young adults on how to talk about sexual health
(November 30, 2012)



### ![Dr. Robert Kirkcaldy](/STD/images/promos/768883.png)New Treatment
Guidelines for Gonorrhea: Antibiotic Changeexternal icon

CDC expert commentary featuring Dr. Robert Kirkcaldy (August 13, 2012)  



### ![Dr. Gail Bolan](/STD/products/images/audiorounds.jpg)Update to Gonorrhea
Treatment Guidelines

Dr. Robert Kirkcaldy, lead author, discusses updates to CDC's gonorrhea
treatment guidelines in this three minute audio podcast. (August 9, 2012)



### ![Dr. Gail Bolan](/STD/products/images/audiorounds.jpg)STD Awareness -
Reaching Youth

Dr. Gail Bolan, Director of DSTDP, discusses how STDs impact young people,
ages 15-24, and what providers can do. (August 9, 2012)



### ![Dr. Gail Bolan](/STD/products/images/Bolan-STI-HIV-sm.jpg)STI Screening
as HIV Prevention

Video features commentary for the 19th International AIDS Conference from Gail
Bolan, MD, Division Director for DSTDP. (July 20, 2012)



### ![Dr. Eileen Dunne](/STD/products/images/Dunne.jpg)HPV Vaccine Now
Recommended for Boys and Young Menexternal icon

CDC Expert Commentary featuring Eileen F. Dunne, MD, MPH (March 19, 2012)  

### ![Safe in the City](/STD/products/images/sitc-79.gif)Safe in the City

Video-based waiting room intervention lowers STD incidence by nearly 10%.  
› Dear Colleague Letterpdf icon (July 22, 2008)

Page last reviewed: August 19, 2015

Content source: Division of STD Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention

home Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Diseases & Related Conditionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HIV/AIDS & STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STDs & Infertility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STDs during Pregnancyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Detailed Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment and Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Risk and Oral Sex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Trichomoniasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Other STDsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Laboratory Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Life Stages and Populationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescents and Young Adultsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adolescents and Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adolescents and STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gay, Bisexual and Other MSMplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gay Men & STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Just Diagnosed?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Which STD Tests Should I Get?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Lowdown Infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Management & Evaluation Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Effective Interventions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gap Assessment Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Outbreak Response Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Congenital Syphilis HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Disseminated Gonococcal Infection HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gonorrhea with Reduced SusceptibilityÂ HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LGV HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Practical Use of Program Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Program Operations Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * S.P.A.C.E. Monkey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Data Management & Information Technologyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Generic Information Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * BPMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Partner Servicesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Internet Partner Services Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * VCAmon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CS Webinar Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Projects & Initiativesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD PCHDplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * National Disease Intervention Specialist (DIS) Recognition Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project (GISP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Health Equityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Community Approaches to Reducing STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Indian Health Service Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SDMB Contacts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tools & Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Brochuresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Facts Brochures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ä¸­æ (Chinese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * KreyÃ²l (Haitian Creole)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ð ÑÑÑÐºÐ¸Ð¹ (Russian)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tiáº½ng ViÃªt (Vietnamese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Prevention Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Provider Pocket Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicated Content
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Videos and Podcastsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Letâs Talk About Sexual Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Safe in the City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Webinars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Widgets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Trainingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Prevention Coursesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Passport to Partner Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Advanced STD Intervention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Visual Case Analysis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Principles of STD Supervision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Intervention for Supervisors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Essentials of STD Supervision I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tailored Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Continuing Education Online
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SASSI â SAS Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD 101 in a Boxplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Script for _Sex in the City_ Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Clinical Slidesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Clinical Slides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Picture Cardsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Picture Cards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Treatment and Screeningplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Drug Noticesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gemifloxacin 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Procaine Penicillin G Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Erythromycin (0.5%) Ophthalmic Ointment Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Expedited Partner Therapyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gonorrhea Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Legal Status of EPT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Legal/Policy Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Prenatal Syphilis Screening Laws
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD QCS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Additional Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About the Division of STD Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fundingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Disease Intervention Training Centers (DITC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * National Network of STD Clinical Prevention Training Centers (NNPTC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * SSuN: Program and other NOFO Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Strategic Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive

Follow STD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Social_round_twitter twitter STD on Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Social_round_facebook facebook STD on Facebook

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

