

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

CDC Features

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# CDC Adolescent and School Health Surveys

Minus

Related Pages

![Group of diverse
adolescents](/features/dsyouthmonitoring/dsyouthmonitoring_456px.jpg)

**CDC supports adolescent and school health efforts using state-of-the-art
surveillance systems designed to collect, analyze, and disseminate data on
youth risk behaviors and school health policies and practices.**

CDC is committed to protecting and improving the health of adolescents. Our
nation's education agencies and schools are partners in the effort to protect
the health of adolescents and help educate them about how to live a healthy
life now and into adulthood.

### CDC's Monitoring Systems Support School-based Health Efforts

Identification of trends in youth health risk behaviors and in school health
policies and practices are strategies CDC uses to achieve its mission to
improve the health and quality of life of adolescents. CDC manages
surveillance systems that collect, analyze, and disseminate critical data.
These systems are _School Health Profiles (Profiles_ ) and the _Youth Risk
Behavior Surveillance System_ (YRBSS).

The  ** _School Health Profiles (Profiles)_** is a system of surveys that
provides representative data on school health policies and practices in
states, large urban school districts and territories. Since 1994, _Profiles_
has been conducted every 2 years by education and health agencies among middle
and high school principals and lead health education teachers to learn about
the status of

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * School health education requirements and content;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Physical education and physical activity;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Practices related to bullying and sexual harassment;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * School health policies related to tobacco-use prevention and nutrition;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * School-based health services;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Family engagement and community involvement; and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * School health coordination.

![School Health Profiles 2018 Results. Assessing school health policies and
practices.](/features/dsyouthmonitoring/dsyouthmonitoring_a450px.png)

Information on school health policies is gathered to help public health and
education professionals identify youth risks behaviors and develop school
health programs.

The most recent _Profiles_ report pdf icon[4.12 MB] _,_ released in November
2019, found that across U.S. states, schools were more likely to teach
students about suicide and violence prevention in 2018 than in 2008. HIV
prevention topics are losing ground in school health education-- since 2008,
the percentage of schools that taught HIV prevention topics fell from 93% to
87% across states.

The report also showed that schools provide referrals to students for health
services more than they provide these services on school grounds (e.g., HIV
testing, STD testing, provision of condoms).  In 2018, just 2% of schools
across states and 12% of schools across large urban school districts provided
condoms for students, while 26% of schools across states and 31% of schools
across large urban districts provided student referrals for condoms.

States and communities can use _Profiles_ data and work with schools to
implement and improve school-based health education programs that promote
connectedness, support academic performance, and protect the health of youth.
Additional findings from the report and maps are available on the  _Profiles_
results web page.

The **_Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System (YRBSS)_** is the only
surveillance system in the United States designed to monitor a wide range of
priority health risk behaviors among representative samples of high school
students at the national, state, and local levels. The _YRBSS_ was designed to

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Determine the prevalence of health behaviors;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Assess whether health behaviors increase, decrease, or stay the same over time;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Examine the co-occurrence of health behaviors;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Provide comparable national, state, territorial, tribal, and local data;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Provide comparable data among subpopulations of youth; and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Monitor progress toward achieving the  _Healthy People_ external icon objectives and other program indicators.

Every other year since 1991, a representative sample of students at the
national, state, and local levels complete the Youth Risk Behavior Survey
(YRBS). The _YRBS_ results helps health professionals understand the factors
that contribute to the leading causes of illness, death and disability among
youth and young adults. Approximately 15,000 U.S. high school students
participated in the 2017 _YRBS_. The latest report included national _YRBS_
data and data from surveys conducted in 39 states and 21 large urban school
districts. In 2018, CDC released a new report, Youth Risk Behavior Survey:
Data Summary and Trends Report pdf icon[16.7 MB]. This trends report uses 2017
_YRBS_ data to focus on four priority areas closely linked to HIV and STD risk
including sexual behavior, high-risk substance use, violence victimization,
and mental health over the past decade. Risk behaviors co-occur, and many
students experience multiple risks across the four focus areas.

### How Survey Data are Used to Improve Adolescent and School Health

These surveillance systems help provide survey data to inform the work and
evaluate the progress of CDC and others in meeting national goals and
objectives designed to protect and improve the health of adolescents.

Timely and ongoing data collection, analysis, and dissemination help CDC meet
the information needs of public health and education professionals and support
efforts for continual program improvement. Some of the uses for the data
collected include

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Helping parents, school board members and administrators, teachers, and other community members determine how local school health policies and programs compare to those nationwide;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Determining how well school health policies and programs address important public health issues and priority health risk behaviors among students;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Helping to understand and evaluate whether schools are implementing policies and practices effectively; and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Helping states and districts determine funding priorities.

More Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC's Healthy Youth Website
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Adolescent and School Health Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youth Online

**Social Media**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Twitter:** @CDC_DASH, @CDCgov 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Facebook:** CDC HIV, CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Instagram:**   CDC

Page last reviewed: January 27, 2020

Content source:

National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention,
Division of Adolescent and School Health

home CDC Features

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Diseases & Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Emergency Preparedness & Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Environmental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Healthy Living
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Injury, Violence & Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Life Stages & Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelersâ Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Workplace Safety & Health

Features Media

Social_round_rss RSS Sign up for Features

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

![Step It Up! Surgeon General's Call to Action to Promote Walking and Walkable
Communities](/physicalactivity/images/cta/CDC-web-button-v5.jpg)
![24/7](/features/images/24-7_i150x120html.gif)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

