

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Adolescent and School Health

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Adolescent Connectedness

Minus

Related Pages

![](/healthyyouth/protective/images/rainbow_silhouette.png)

## Youth Connectedness Is an Important Protective Factor for Health and Well-
being

Connectedness is an important protective factor for youth that can reduce the
likelihood of a variety of health risk behaviors. Connectedness refers to a
sense of being cared for, supported, and belonging, and can be centered on
feeling connected to school, family (i.e. parents and caregivers), or other
important people and organizations in their lives. Youth who feel connected at
school and home are less likely to experience negative health outcomes related
to sexual risk, substance use, violence, and mental health.

In addition, school connectedness (i.e. the belief by students that adults and
peers in the school care about them as individuals) has been shown to have
positive effects on academic achievement, including having higher grades and
test scores, having better school attendance, and staying in school longer.

## Adolescent Connectedness has Lasting Effects

Recent CDC findings published in _Pediatrics external icon_ suggest that youth
connectedness also has lasting effects. Youth who feel connected at school and
at home were found to be as much as 66% less likely to experience health risk
behaviors related to sexual health, substance use, violence, and mental health
in adulthood.

![School and Family Connections in Adolescence Linked to Positive Health
Outcomes in Adulthood. Youth Experience Risks: 17 percent have seriously
considered attempting suicide; 9 percent have had four or more lifetime sex
partners; 14 percent have ever misused prescription pain medicine. School and
family connections help protect youth. Adults who experienced strong
connections as youth were 48 percent-66 percent less likely to: Have mental
health issues; Experience violence; Engage in risky sexual behavior; Use
substances. Schools, families, and providers can help. SCHOOLS can implement
positive youth development programs. PARENTS can have frequent and open
conversations. PROVIDERS can discuss relationships and school
experiences.](/healthyyouth/protective/images/youth_connectedness_visual_abstract.jpg)

CDC findings published in _Pediatrics external icon_ suggest that youth who
feel connected at home and at school were less likely to experience health
risk behaviors related to mental health, violence, sexual health, and
substance use in adulthood.

### Youth Experience Health Risks

Among U.S. high school students who participated in the 2017 Youth Risk
Behavior Survey2:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 32% persistently felt sad or hopeless
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 17% have seriously considered attempting suicide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 14% made a suicide plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 46% did not use a condom during last sex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 7% were forced to have sex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 9% have had four or more lifetime sex partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 19% have been bullied at school
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 14% have ever misused prescription pain medicine

idea icon

Youth experience multiple health risks and those health risks can contribute
to poor health outcomes in adulthood. Therefore, it's important that we also
promote protective factors that can reduce health risks, both during the
adolescent years and long term.1

### Recommendations for Schools, Families, and Healthcare Providers

There are concrete steps schools, families, and healthcare providers can take
to promote connectedness among youth.

##### **Schools Can:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Provide professional development on classroom management. Reinforcing positive behavior through praise and establishing rules, routines, and expectations are classroom management techniques that promote higher levels of school connectedness.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Support student led-clubs at school. These clubs create a safe space for students to socialize, support each other, and connect with supportive school staff.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facilitate positive youth development activities. Implementing mentoring programs, providing opportunities to volunteer in the community; or connecting students to community-based programs can provide youth with a network of supportive adults.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Provide parents and families with resources that support positive parenting practices such as open, honest communication and parental supervision.

##### **Families and Caregivers Can:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Communicate openly and honestly, including about their values.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Supervise their adolescent to facilitate healthy decision-making.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Spend time with their adolescent enjoying shared activities.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Become engaged in school and help with homework.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Volunteer at their adolescent's school.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Communicate regularly with teachers and administrators.

##### **Healthcare Providers Can:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ask adolescents about family relationships and school experiences as a part of routine health screenings.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Encourage positive parenting practices.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Engage parents in discussions about how to connect with their adolescents, communicate effectively, and monitor activities and health behaviors.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Educate parents and youth about adolescent development and health risks.

### What CDC is Doing

#### CDC Support Increases Implementation of Effective Interventions

CDC works with other federal agencies, national nongovernmental organizations
(NGOs), education agencies, health organizations, and youth-serving
organizations to promote connectedness and reduce negative health outcomes by:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding education agencies to increase school and family connectedness.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Supporting schools in the implementation of connectedness strategies, policies, and activities.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Providing tools and resources for schools and families to help promote the importance of family and school connectedness.

Learn More About the Impact of CDC Programs

### Resources

Schools

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Fostering School Connectedness: Information for School Districts and School Administrators pdf icon[PDF - 2 MB]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Fostering School Connectedness: Information for Teachers and Other School Staff pdf icon[PDF - 1 MB]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Helping Your Child Feel Connected to School: Information for Parents and Families pdf icon[PDF - 1 MB]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * School Connectedness: Strategies for Increasing Protective Factors Among Youthpdf icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Fostering School Connectedness: Staff Development Program Facilitator's Guidepdf icon

Parents

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Helping Your Child Feel Connected to School: Information for Parents and Families pdf icon[PDF - 1 MB]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Positive Parenting Practices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Promoting Parent Engagement: Information for School Districts and School Administrators pdf icon[PDF - 852 KB]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Promoting Parent Engagement: Information for Teachers and Other School Staff pdf icon[PDF - 747 KB]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ways to Engage Your Child's School: Information for Parents and Families pdf icon[PDF - 724 KB]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Monitoring Your Teens Activities What Parents and Families Should Know pdf icon[PDF - 320 KB]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Talking to Your Teens about Sex: Going Beyond "the Talk" pdf icon[PDF - 1 MB]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Teen Health Services and One on One time with a Healthcare Provider: An Infobrief for Parents pdf icon[PDF - 310 KB]

**References**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. Steiner RJ, Sheremenko G, Lesesne C, et al. Adolescent Connectedness and Adult Health Outcomesexternal icon.  _Pediatrics._ 2019;144(1):e20183766
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2. Kann, L., McManus, T., Harris, W. A., et al. (2018). Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance--United States, 2017.  _MMWR Surveillance Summary, 67(8), 1-479._

Page last reviewed: August 21, 2019

Content source: Division of Adolescent and School Health, National Center for
HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

home DASH Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About DASHplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * At A Glance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Why Schools?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Health: What Works In Schoolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Safe and Supportive School Environments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youth HIV, STD & Pregnancy Prevention Program Impact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Calendar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Contact DASH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Adolescent and School Health Policyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * DASH Partner Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policy Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Policy Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State School-Based Health Education Law Summary Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Data By Topicplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nutrition, Physical Activity, & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Profilesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Map & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Requesting Data Files
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SHPPSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * YRBSSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Maps & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Trends Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * NYPANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Disparitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Addressing Health and Educational Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Considerations for LGBTQ Youthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Protective Factors for LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Health Disparities Among LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Terminology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Survey of Todayâs Adolescent Relationships and Transitions (START)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funded Areasplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Notice of Funding Opportunities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Local Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded State Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Territorial Agency and Tribal Nation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded NGOs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Protective Factorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parent Engagement in Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Positive Parenting Practices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Services for Teensplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Condom Availability Programs (CAPs)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: In Brief
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: Things to Consider
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * High-Risk Substance Use Among Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sexual Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Evaluationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Evaluations of Innovative Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Additional Evaluation Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health & Academicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Anti-Bullying Policies and Enumeration: An Infobrief for Local Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How the WSCC Model Informs HIV, STD, and Pregnancy Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Whole School, Whole Community, Whole Child (WSCC) Model
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * GYT: Get Yourself Tested for High Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Curriculum Analysis Tool (HECAT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HECAT FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Teacher Training Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Publications, Registries, and Other Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Registries of Programs Effective in Reducing Youth Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * NYHAAD Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * HIV Information and Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Portrait Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Buttons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Palm Cards & Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specific Audiencesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Planning for Program Success
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Grants Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Program Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reporting Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parents

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

idea_01  PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

