

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Adolescent and School Health

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# 2017 State School-Based Health Education Law Summary Reports

Minus

Related Pages

![](/healthyyouth/images/about/state_law_summary_thumbnail.jpg)

Many youth in the United States engage in behaviors that place them at risk
for HIV, STDs and pregnancy1. Schools and other youth-serving organizations
can help young people adopt lifelong attitudes and behaviors that support
their health and well-being--including behaviors that reduce their risk for
HIV, STDs, and pregnancy.

State laws can significantly shape state and local education agencies (SEAs
and LEAs) decisions on school curricula and services, including the content
and delivery of sexual health education. Sexual health education polices
across the nation include state laws and regulations ranging from general
mandates to specific guidelines. This varied approach may make it difficult
for SEAs and LEAs to understand their jurisdiction's specific policy landscape
in order to effectively exercise local decision making within state mandated
requirements. Research shows that well-designed and effectively implemented
school health policies and programs can improve students' health-related
behaviors and outcomes, as well as their educational outcomes.2-6

In 2017, CDC conducted an analysis of state laws and regulations related to
health education and specific to school-based sexual health education, HIV
prevention education, and STD prevention education in the U.S. The purpose of
this analysis was to identify the landscape in which SEAs and LEAs must
operate when developing and implementing curricula and programs related to
sexual health education, HIV prevention education, and STD prevention
education. State legislative searches were conducted in Thomson Reuters
Westlaw® (Thomas Reuters, Eagan, Minnesota) on 51 jurisdictions (50 U.S.
states and the District of Columbia) using a verified search string between
August 2015 and April 2016. Laws were included if they had at least one
characteristic related to school-based curricula or classroom-based
instruction on sexual health or HIV and STD prevention education. Forty-four
states and the District of Columbia were identified to have at least one law
that addressed school-based sexual health, HIV prevention, and/or STD
prevention education.

View and download data on health risk behaviors among high school students and
school health policies and practices. Also, download tools to assess health
education curricula and improve school health and safety policies and
programs.

State School-Based Health Education Law Summary Reports

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Alabama (AL): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Alaska (AK): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Arizona (AZ): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Arkansas (AR): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * California (CA): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Colorado (CO): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Connecticut (CT): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Delaware (DE): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * District of Columbia (DC): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Florida (FL): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Georgia (GA): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hawaii (HI): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Idaho (ID): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Illinois (IL): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Indiana (IN): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Iowa (IA): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Kansas (KS): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Kentucky (KY): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Louisiana (LA): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Maine (ME): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Maryland (MD): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Massachusetts (MA): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Michigan (MI): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Minnesota (MN): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Mississippi (MS): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Missouri (MO): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Montana (MT): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nebraska (NE): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nevada (NV): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * New Hampshire (NH): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * New Jersey (NJ): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * New Mexico (NM): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * New York (NY): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * North Carolina (NC): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * North Dakota (ND): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ohio (OH): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Oklahoma (OK): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Oregon (OR): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pennsylvania (PA): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Rhode Island (RI): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * South Carolina (SC): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * South Dakota (SD): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tennessee (TN): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Texas (TX): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Utah (UT): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Vermont (VT): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Virginia (VA): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Washington (WA): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * West Virginia (WV): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Wisconsin (WI): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Wyoming (WY): Printablepdf icon - Accessibletxt icon

**508 ACCESSIBILITY of these resources:** Section 508 requires Federal
agencies to ensure that individuals with disabilities who are members of the
public or Federal employees have access to and use of electronic and
information technology that is comparable to that provided to individuals
without disabilities, unless an undue burden would be imposed on the agency.
If you need assistance with the resources on this page, please contact
nccddashinfo@cdc.gov and include "508 Accommodation" without quotes in the
subject line of your email. In the body of the email, please specify the
resources and the URL that you would like to access.

References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance--United States, 2015. MMWR 2016; 65(SS-6).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2. Kirby D. Emerging Answers 2007: Research Findings on Programs to Reduce Teen Pregnancy and Sexually Transmitted Diseases. Washington, DC: National Campaign to Prevent Teen Pregnancy; 2007.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3. Kirby D. The impact of abstinence and comprehensive sex and STD/HIV education programs on adolescent sexual behavior. Sexuality Research & Social Policy 2008;5(3):18-27.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4. Spriggs AL, Halpern CT. Timing of sexual debut and initiation of postsecondary education by early adulthood. Perspectives on Sexual and Reproductive Health 2008;40(3):152-161.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5. Coyle K, Kirby D, Marin B, Gomez C, Gregorich S. Draw the line/respect the line: a randomized trial of a middle school intervention to reduce sexual risk behaviors. American Journal of Public Health 2004;94(5):843-851.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6. Carlson SA, Fulton JE, Lee SM, Maynard M, Drown DR, Kohl III HW, Dietz WH. Physical education and academic achievement in elementary school: data from the Early Childhood Longitudinal Study. American Journal of Public Health 2008;98(4):721-727.

Page last reviewed: June 20, 2018

Content source: Division of Adolescent and School Health, National Center for
HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

home DASH Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About DASHplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * At A Glance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Why Schools?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Health: What Works In Schoolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Safe and Supportive School Environments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youth HIV, STD & Pregnancy Prevention Program Impact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Calendar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Contact DASH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Adolescent and School Health Policyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * DASH Partner Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policy Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Policy Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State School-Based Health Education Law Summary Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Data By Topicplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nutrition, Physical Activity, & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Profilesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Map & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Requesting Data Files
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SHPPSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * YRBSSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Maps & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Trends Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * NYPANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Disparitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Addressing Health and Educational Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Considerations for LGBTQ Youthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Protective Factors for LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Health Disparities Among LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Terminology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Survey of Todayâs Adolescent Relationships and Transitions (START)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funded Areasplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Notice of Funding Opportunities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Local Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded State Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Territorial Agency and Tribal Nation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded NGOs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Protective Factorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parent Engagement in Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Positive Parenting Practices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Services for Teensplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Condom Availability Programs (CAPs)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: In Brief
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: Things to Consider
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * High-Risk Substance Use Among Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sexual Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Evaluationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Evaluations of Innovative Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Additional Evaluation Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health & Academicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Anti-Bullying Policies and Enumeration: An Infobrief for Local Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How the WSCC Model Informs HIV, STD, and Pregnancy Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Whole School, Whole Community, Whole Child (WSCC) Model
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * GYT: Get Yourself Tested for High Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Curriculum Analysis Tool (HECAT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HECAT FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Teacher Training Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Publications, Registries, and Other Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Registries of Programs Effective in Reducing Youth Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * NYHAAD Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * HIV Information and Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Portrait Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Buttons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Palm Cards & Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specific Audiencesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Planning for Program Success
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Grants Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Program Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reporting Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parents

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Related CDC Sites

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Healthy Schools

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF TXT

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

