

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Adolescent and School Health

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# High-Risk Substance Use Among Youth

Minus

Related Pages

Why is CDC addressing youth high-risk substance use?

Although most youth are in good health, some youth are at an increased risk
for behaviors that can lead to poor health outcomes, such as high-risk
substance use. The majority of adults who meet the criteria for having a
substance use disorder started using substances during their teen and young
adult years.5 Youth with substance use disorders also experience higher rates
of physical and mental illnesses, diminished overall health and well-being,
and potential progression to addiction.

What is high-risk substance use?

For the purposes of addressing HIV and STD prevention, high-risk substance use
is any use by adolescents of substances with a high risk of adverse outcomes
(i.e., injury, criminal justice involvement, school dropout, loss of life).
This includes misuse of prescription drugs, use of illicit drugs (i.e.,
cocaine, heroin, methamphetamines, inhalants, hallucinogens, or ecstasy), and
use of injection drugs which have a high risk of infection of blood-borne
diseases such as HIV and hepatitis.

The Facts

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 14% of high school students reported having ever used select illicit or injection drugs (i.e. cocaine, inhalants, heroin, methamphetamines, hallucinogens, or ecstasy).,2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 14% of students reported the non-prescription use of opioids. 1,2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Injection drug use places youth at direct risk for HIV, and drug use broadly places youth at risk of overdose. 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youth opioid use is directly linked to sexual risk behaviors. 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Students who report ever using prescription drugs without a doctor's prescription are more likely than other students to have been the victim of physical or sexual dating violence.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Drug use is associated with sexual risk behavior, experience of violence, and mental health and suicide risks.2

Risk Factors for high-risk substance use

Risk factors for youth high-risk substance use can include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Family history of substance use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Favorable parental attitudes towards the behavior
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Poor parental monitoring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Parental substance use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Family rejection of sexual orientation or gender identity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Association with delinquent or substance using peers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Lack of school connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Low academic achievement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Childhood sexual abuse
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Mental health issues

High-Risk Substance Use Prevention

Research has improved our understanding of factors that help buffer youth from
a variety of risky behaviors, including substance use. These are known as
protective factors. Some protective factors for high risk substance use
include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Parent or family engagement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Family support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Parental disapproval of substance use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Parental monitoring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * School Connectedness

Teens Linked to Care

Teens Linked to Care (TLC) is a collaborative pilot project between the CDC,
the CDC Foundationexternal icon, The Conrad N. Hilton Foundationexternal icon,
and three pilot sites in Austin, Indiana; Campbell County, Kentucky; and
Portsmouth, Ohio.  The pilot seeks to assess the ability of rural communities
to integrate substance use prevention and sexual risk prevention program
activities in school-based settings.

![Impact of the students screened for risky substance use behavior through
TLC:](/healthyyouth/substance-use/tlc_impact.jpg)

What CDC is Doing

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Using surveillance data to explore risk and protective factors for youth substance use.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Conducting research on the topic of youth substance use and its association with a variety of risks and behaviors.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Conducting an analysis of local and state policies on youth substance use prevention.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Conducting a pilot project in high-risk rural communities called Teens Linked to Care (TLC).

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System (YRBSS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * NIDA for Teensexternal icon

Resources

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youth Risk Behavior Survey Data Summary and Trends Report 2007-2017 pdf icon[PDF - 17 MB]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Substance Use and Sexual Risk Behaviors Among Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Teens Linked to Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Making the Connection: Drug Use and Academic Grades pdf icon[PDF - 452 KB]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Parent Engagement: Overview Brochure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * School Connectedness:  For School Districts and School Administrators
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * School Connectedness:  For Teachers and Other School Staff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * School Connectedness: For Parents and Families
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Teen Health Services and One-On -One Time with a Healthcare Provider: An Infobrief for Parents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Monitoring Your Teen's Activities: What Parents and Families Should Know

References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. Kann, L., McManus, T., Harris, W. A., et al. (2018). Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance--United States, 2017. _MMWR Surveillance Summary, 67(8), 1-479._
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2. CDC, Division of Adolescent and School Health, National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention. _Youth Risk Behavior Survey Data Summary & Trends Report, 2007-2017_. Atlanta, GA: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Office of Infectious Diseases, NCHHSTP; 2018.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3. Clayton, H.B, Lowry, R., August, E., & Jones, S.E. Nonmedical use of prescription drugs and sexual risk behaviors. _Pediatrics_.2016; 137 (1),e20152480
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4. Clayton, H.B, Lowry, R, Basile, K.C., et al. Physical and Sexual Dating Violence and Nonmedical Use of Prescription Drugs. _Pediatrics_.2017; 140 (6): e20172289
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), Office of the Surgeon General, _Facing Addiction in America:_ _The Surgeon General 's Report on Alcohol, Drugs, and Health. Washington, DC: HHS_, November 2016.

Page last reviewed: April 18, 2019

Content source: Division of Adolescent and School Health, National Center for
HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

home DASH Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About DASHplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * At A Glance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Why Schools?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Health: What Works In Schoolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Safe and Supportive School Environments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youth HIV, STD & Pregnancy Prevention Program Impact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Calendar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Contact DASH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Adolescent and School Health Policyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * DASH Partner Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policy Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Policy Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State School-Based Health Education Law Summary Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Data By Topicplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nutrition, Physical Activity, & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Profilesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Map & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Requesting Data Files
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SHPPSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * YRBSSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Maps & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Trends Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * NYPANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Disparitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Addressing Health and Educational Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Considerations for LGBTQ Youthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Protective Factors for LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Health Disparities Among LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Terminology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Survey of Todayâs Adolescent Relationships and Transitions (START)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funded Areasplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Notice of Funding Opportunities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Local Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded State Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Territorial Agency and Tribal Nation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded NGOs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Protective Factorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parent Engagement in Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Positive Parenting Practices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Services for Teensplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Condom Availability Programs (CAPs)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: In Brief
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: Things to Consider
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * High-Risk Substance Use Among Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sexual Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Evaluationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Evaluations of Innovative Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Additional Evaluation Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health & Academicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Anti-Bullying Policies and Enumeration: An Infobrief for Local Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How the WSCC Model Informs HIV, STD, and Pregnancy Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Whole School, Whole Community, Whole Child (WSCC) Model
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * GYT: Get Yourself Tested for High Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Curriculum Analysis Tool (HECAT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HECAT FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Teacher Training Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Publications, Registries, and Other Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Registries of Programs Effective in Reducing Youth Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * NYHAAD Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * HIV Information and Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Portrait Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Buttons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Palm Cards & Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specific Audiencesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Planning for Program Success
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Grants Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Program Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reporting Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parents

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

