

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Adolescent and School Health

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# HECAT FAQs

Minus

Related Pages

To learn more about the HECAT and its use, browse the topics below.

users class solid icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Basic Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Benefits of using the HECAT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Using the HECAT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Conducting a HECAT Curriculum Review
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Revising the HECAT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Beyond the HECAT

### Basic Information

What is the purpose of the HECAT?

The purpose of the HECAT is to provide state, regional and local education
agencies with a common set of tools to assist with the selection or
development of health education curricula. The HECAT contains guidance,
analysis tools, scoring rubrics, and resources for carrying out a clear,
complete, and consistent examination of health education curricula. The HECAT
results can help schools select or develop appropriate and effective health
education curricula, strengthen the delivery of health education, and improve
the ability of health educators to influence healthy behaviors and healthy
outcomes among school-age youth. The HECAT is customizable to meet local
community needs and conform to the curriculum requirements of a state or
school district. HECAT modules address the following curricula:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Alcohol and Other Drugs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Healthy Eating
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Mental and Emotional Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Personal Health and Wellness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Physical Activity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sexual Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tobacco
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Violence Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Comprehensive Health Education

Who can use the HECAT?

The HECAT is designed to be used by state, regional and local education agency
staff and others responsible for selecting, supervising, developing or using
health education curricula in schools. For example,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. Curriculum committees or educators at school districts, schools, or community-based organizations that work with schools can use the HECAT, in conjunction with the state standards and health education frameworks or other locally determined requirements, to 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Develop new or improved courses of study, frameworks, learning objectives, or curricula
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Guide the selection of curricula available for purchase
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Examine curricula currently in use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2. State or regional educational agency staff can use the HECAT to inform the development or review of 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State health education standards or frameworks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Recommendations for conducting state or local curriculum review
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State-recommended health education curricula
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3. Developers of nationally disseminated and packaged curricula, such as nongovernmental organizations and for-profit curriculum development companies, can use the HECAT to design health education curricula that best meet the needs of schools and the young people they serve.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4. Institutions of higher education teacher preparation programs can use the HECAT to improve their students' understanding of health education, curriculum analysis, and development of instructional skills.

What is included in the HECAT?

The HECAT includes all the needed guidance and appraisal tools for carrying
out a thorough and systematic assessment of a health education curriculum.
Information, materials, processes and tools are included in the chapters,
appendices, and glossary. The HECAT includes

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Essential background information and instructions for using the HECAT to review and improve locally developed curricula
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Templates to record important descriptive information about a curriculum for use in the curriculum review process
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Preliminary curriculum considerations, such as accuracy, acceptability, feasibility, and affordability analyses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Curriculum fundamentals, such as teacher materials, instructional design, and instructional strategies and materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Customizable templates for state or local use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specific health-topic concept and skills analyses

Is the HECAT required as a condition for receiving federal funding?

No. The HECAT is not required as a condition for receiving funding from CDC or
any other federal agency. CDC developed the HECAT to help improve health
education curriculum selection and development. Its use is entirely voluntary.

Has CDC completed analyses of curricula for which they can provide HECAT score
summaries?

No. To determine reliability of HECAT analysis and analysis processes and
items and inform improvements, CDC conducted pilot reviews of a limited number
of commercial curricula. No curriculum names were documented and scores were
not retained after improvements were incorporated into the HECAT. CDC does not
conduct systematic reviews of curricula using the HECAT; does not retain or
disseminate HECAT curriculum scores from others who have used the HECAT; and
does not endorse HECAT-based curriculum analysis scores distributed by other
organizations or companies.

How do I get started?

To use the HECAT, follow these steps:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. Print a copy of HECAT from the HECAT home page.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2. Read the entire HECAT to become familiar with its contents and how it can meet your curriculum analysis, development, or selection needs.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3. Review the Overviewpdf icon and Chapter 1, General Instructionspdf icon. Chapter 1 will provide you with essential background information and instructions for conducting a health education curriculum review.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4. Read all remaining chapters, follow the steps from Chapter 1 to review the curriculum, and complete the forms to finalize the HECAT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5. Complete the HECAT Training Tools for Schools to make sure you have a basic understanding of what the HECAT can do and how you might best use it to guide curriculum review processes and decisions. 

 Top of Page

### Benefits of Using the HECAT

How can my school, school district, or state benefit from using the HECAT?

Using the HECAT can

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Help ensure a complete, thorough, and consistent review of a health education curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Help clarify what should be included in a health education curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Help ensure that the curriculum is aligned with research-based practices, the National Health Education Standards, and CDC's Characteristics of an Effective Health Education Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Help identify instructional strategies that improve teaching and student learning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Inform your selection of a high-quality curriculum that is affordable and feasible to implement in your schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Provide sound and defensible justification for curriculum decisions to parents, school board members, and others interested in health education in your community or state

How can the HECAT add to my current health education curriculum selection or
development process?

The HECAT can help ensure that your current health education curriculum
selection or development process is systematic, consistent, and thorough and
reflects current research and practice, which will strengthen your own
curriculum selection or development processes.

 Top of Page

### Using the HECAT

Can the HECAT be used to determine the most appropriate grade to address
specific concepts or skill instruction?

No. The HECAT provides knowledge and skill expectations deemed appropriate for
grade groups (pre-K-2; 3-5; 6-8; 9-12). It does not identify the individual
grade at which these might be most appropriate.

State boards of education, local school boards, school district
administrators, or curriculum coordinators determine curriculum priorities,
and curriculum requirements for all relevant health education topics,
including the grades at which specific concepts and skills should be
addressed. The HECAT can inform priorities and decisions about grade-level
requirements. However, the HECAT is most useful in determining which
commercially packaged curriculum best aligns with established requirements or
what should be included in a locally developed curriculum to better meet these
requirements. You can rearrange the HECAT knowledge and skill expectations if
their current placement does not match your local requirements.

Will the HECAT enable us to identify an effective health education curriculum?
Our state (or district) mandates that we use research-based, effective health
education curricula.

No. The HECAT does not assess research findings related to a particular
curriculum's effectiveness. Instead, it measures the extent to which a
curriculum incorporates effective practices. The HECAT is based on CDC's
Characteristics of Effective Health Education Curricula and National Health
Education Standards. However, the HECAT does include questions that ask
whether or not the curriculum under review is included on federal lists that
identify research-based, effective curricula.

Various federal agencies have identified youth-related programs considered to
be worthy of recommendation based on a review of research evidence (see
Registries of Programs Effective in Reducing Youth Risk Behavior).
Identification by these agencies should augment, not replace, your use of the
HECAT to determine the best health education curriculum for your school and
community.

Can we use the HECAT to develop our health education framework or scope-and-
sequence?

Yes. However, you should go through your own thorough process to develop your
health education framework and scope-and-sequence that reflect the needs of
your students and the interests and priorities of others in your school
community.

The HECAT provides valuable information to assist you in the scope-and-
sequence or framework development process. The HECAT articulates the National
Health Education Standards, identifies the expected outcomes (Healthy
Behavioral Outcomes) of a topic-specific or comprehensive health education
curriculum, and identifies the essential knowledge and skill expectations that
are directly related to each topic by grade group. This information can help
expedite the development of a health education scope-and-sequence or health
education framework.

More information about using the HECAT to design a scope-and-sequence for
health education can be found in Appendix 4pdf icon and Developing a Scope and
Sequence for Sexual Health Educationpdf icon.

Can we use the HECAT to analyze and select health education textbooks?

A textbook is not typically considered a complete health education curriculum.
The HECAT is designed to analyze an entire curriculum, including all the
resources, such as textbooks that will be used with the curriculum. We do not
recommend that you use the HECAT to analyze a single resource, such as a
textbook, independent of the curriculum in which it will be used, because it
will require a more extensive review than would normally be necessary for such
a single resource.

We recognize that schools and school districts might use a separate review
process to select a textbook that will become part of an existing health
education curriculum. The HECAT can help you consider what to include in a
separate textbook review process. Guidance for considering how the HECAT can
be useful in the review of health education resource materials, such as
textbooks, is provided in Appendix 2pdf icon.

Why does the HECAT include both individual health topic modules and a
comprehensive health education module?

The HECAT is designed to support analysis of many health education curricula,
some that focus on health outcomes related to a single topic (e.g., violence
prevention) and some that address a comprehensive set of health outcomes
across multiple health topics. You can choose the module(s) that best matches
your needs and the focus of the curriculum under review:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * If a curriculum clearly focuses on a single topic, such as violence prevention, use the module that addresses that topic.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * If a curriculum focuses on outcomes related to only two or three topics and it is clear that the curriculum is intentionally limited only to those topics (e.g., only nutrition and physical activity; or only mental and emotional health, sexual health, and violence prevention), use the two or three topic-specific modules that address these topics.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * If a curriculum addresses numerous health problems, issues, or topics, focuses on more than one grade level, and includes a wide range of learning activities to address multiple health outcomes, use the comprehensive health education curriculum module.

Is it necessary to complete the entire HECAT for each curriculum that is
reviewed?

It is not necessary, but all categories and items can be useful for selecting
or developing a curriculum. You can determine which items in the HECAT are
useful and important to include in your curriculum analysis and in the
selection or development process.

You also have the choice of determining how you want to use the HECAT items in
your review process. For example, some curriculum review teams have used
Chapter 2, General Curriculum Information to collect general descriptive
information about the curriculum, developer and the year of development, topic
areas, and grade levels; Chapter 4, Preliminary Curriculum Considerations, to
determine curriculum accuracy, acceptability, feasibility, and affordability;
and Chapter 5, Curriculum Fundamentals, to appraise the learning objectives,
teacher materials, curriculum design, instructional strategies and materials,
promotion of norms that value positive health behaviors, and promotion of
skills that reinforce positive health behaviors of a health education
curriculum, to make initial decisions and shorten the list of curricula to be
seriously considered. The remainder of the HECAT (i.e., Chapter 6 Overview of
Modules to appraise specific health-topic curricula) is then used to review
the curricula under serious consideration.

 Top of Page

### Conducting a HECAT Curriculum Review

Should the HECAT be completed by an individual?

No. The review of curricula using the HECAT should be conducted by a team --
an individual should not do it alone. A HECAT committee, working together,
should complete the HECAT.

Can a single person complete specific parts of the HECAT (e.g., Chapter 2,
General Curriculum Information)?

Yes. Some chapters and sections of the HECAT can be completed by one person,
who then provides information to other review committee members. For example,
Chapter 2, General Curriculum Information, captures general descriptive
information needed to understand and review any health education curriculum
and to make a final curriculum selection. One person who is very familiar with
the curriculum, usually the curriculum coordinator, can complete the General
Curriculum Information and provide the results to other review committee team
members.

It is not advisable, however, to assign one person to review sections that
would benefit from multiple perspectives and expertise. For example,
acceptability of a curriculum typically varies within a community. It is
critical that multiple reviewers complete the Acceptability Analysis together
to ensure that the Acceptability Score reflects community perspectives, rather
than only one individual's point of view.

Should the curriculum review committee be limited to school staff (e.g.,
school teachers, administrators, board members)?

No. The curriculum review team also should include parents and other people
from the community at-large. A suggested list of review committee members is
provided in Chapter 1. All review team members should be stakeholders with an
investment in the health and education needs and interests of the students in
your school district or school.

Does everyone on our curriculum review team have to complete all sections of
the HECAT for every curriculum being reviewed and considered?

No. But it is important that the most knowledgeable person(s) complete each
section of the HECAT. The curriculum review team must have a broad range of
expertise, and each of the team members should review only the HECAT
components for which he or she is most qualified. For example, parents are
invaluable in completing the Acceptability Analysis and, perhaps, less able to
review the Skill Application. Chapter 1pdf icon of the HECAT provides a list
of the persons who might be appropriate to serve on the curriculum review team
and who have the expertise needed to complete some or all of the HECAT.

Even though it is not necessary for all curriculum review committee members to
complete all sections of the HECAT, all members should receive the results of
the entire HECAT analysis prior to making curriculum recommendations. Chapter
1 provides guidance for using the HECAT results to make curriculum
recommendations.

What should we do if the curriculum review team members do not feel qualified
or competent in completing some of the HECAT (e.g., the Accuracy Analysis)?

It is important to select review committee members who have the necessary
expertise to complete the HECAT. Chapter 1 provides a list of persons who
should be considered on your review committee for completing specific parts of
the HECAT. For the Accuracy Analysis, for example, you should use persons who
have research expertise (e.g., a university researcher), scientific expertise
in the content area under review (e.g., a dietician for the topic "healthy
eating"), and expertise in instructional delivery (e.g., a certified health
educator or curriculum director). You should identify these experts prior to
beginning the curriculum review. If desired, you can limit their assignments
to cover only the parts of the HECAT for which they have expertise.

Should curriculum developers be included as members of the curriculum review
committee?

No. It is often helpful to talk with the curriculum developers in order to
thoroughly complete Chapter 2, General Curriculum Information. You might also
want to invite them to showcase their curricular materials (e.g., scope and
sequence, charts showing alignment with the National Health Education
Standards) before you begin your review. However, curriculum developers should
not be included in the analysis or scoring process, nor should they be allowed
to unduly influence review committee members' analyses. Most developers of
commercially packaged curricula have a primary interest in marketing their
products.

The HECAT appears extensive. How much time is required to complete a review
using the HECAT?

Pilot curriculum reviews using the HECAT have taken from 4 to 16 hours per
curriculum. The time required for a curriculum review will depend on several
factors:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The HECAT items you decide to use for the review of curricula.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Each reviewer's understanding of health education and relevant health topics.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Each reviewer's familiarity with the HECAT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Each reviewer's familiarity with the curriculum being reviewed.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The breadth and scope of the curriculum under review. For example, a multi-grade curriculum will require more time than a single-grade curriculum and a comprehensive curriculum will require more time than a single-topic curriculum.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The amount of curricular material. For example, more time will be required for a curriculum that includes multiple parts, such as videos, workbooks, and separate guides for teachers, than will a single-package curriculum with no extra materials.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The orderliness of a curriculum. For example, more time will be required for a curriculum that is disorganized, fragmented, or incomplete than one that is well organized.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The extent to which curriculum materials are easily available for all reviewers. For example, the process will take longer if the reviewers have to share the curriculum materials than if they each have their own complete package of materials.

The HECAT requires sufficient time to prepare for and complete the analysis.
Typically, a curriculum review will not be completed in one session. Separate
sessions might be necessary to prepare the review committee to use the HECAT,
determine local performance benchmarks, shorten the list of curricula that
might be acceptable for complete analysis, and conduct the complete analysis
on the remaining curricula.

You should also allow time for the curriculum review committee to review
curriculum analysis scores and reach a consensus on curriculum
recommendations. Chapter 1 of the HECAT provides guidance for coordinating and
organizing your curriculum review and helps you determine the time you need to
complete your curriculum review and selection process.

We are not sure we have all the expertise in health education to confidently
plan our curriculum review. Where can we get help in planning a health
education curriculum review or in using the HECAT?

There are many possible resources available to assist you with your health
education and curriculum planning. First, contact the school health education
consultant or coordinated school health program director in your state
education or state health agency. Although the state consultant or director
might not be able to assist you directly, he or she can refer or link you to
state resource centers and other experts, including--

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instructional staff from local or state university health education teacher preparation programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * State-based professional health education organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Knowledgeable health educators employed in other school districts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Reputable consultants with expertise in health education curricula

Many school health educators are members of national professional associations
that represent school health educators, including the following:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * American School Health Association
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Society for Public Health Education

The national officers in these organizations can help answer questions and
link you to knowledgeable members who might be available to provide more
direct assistance.

You can direct your questions regarding health education or HECAT to CDC's
Division of Adolescent and School Health at the following e-mail address:
Contact CDC-INFO or phone 1-800-CDC-INFO. CDC/DASH grantees can contact their
Project Officer to discuss how to best use the HECAT.

CDC provides support for HECAT Workshops. This support is limited and provided
on a case-by-case basis. For more information, see Training Tools for Healthy
Schools.

 Top of Page

### Revising the HECAT

Can we make changes to the HECAT to address our own priorities, needs, and
interests? Can we make the HECAT shorter? The coverage of the health topics in
the modules (Chapter 6) of the HECAT is thorough. But, some modules include
analysis of content that is inconsistent with our community's values and does
not include analysis of content specific to our community priorities and local
curriculum requirements.

Yes. CDC recognizes that school curricula are typically selected at the local
level and must meet local school and community needs and conform to state or
school district curriculum requirements. You are encouraged to review the
HECAT items before analyzing curricula and, if necessary, add, delete, or
revise items to meet local needs and curriculum requirements. You can also
shorten the HECAT. Ultimately, its length and content should reflect what you
want to analyze.

In making revisions, you should remember that the items included in the HECAT
were developed through a rigorous process guided by research evidence and
expert opinion on the types of information and learning experiences that help
young people adopt and maintain health-enhancing behaviors. Revisions that
significantly change the content or length of the HECAT could diminish the
value the HECAT brings to your curriculum analysis, selection, or development
process.

What if the HECAT doesn't match the topics in my curriculum (e.g., consumer
health)?

The topics used in the HECAT reflect the health issues that CDC considers to
be important for children and adolescents. These topics may not match those
used by other organizations or curriculum developers or the terminology used
in your state, school district, or school. You should review the HECAT to find
health topic modules that most complement your curriculum requirements and
terminology. You can change the terminology and content of the modules to best
meet your needs. If you do not find a match within a single module, it might
be necessary to select items from multiple modules and design a new HECAT
topic module to meet your needs.

Can the HECAT be revised once the curriculum review process begins?

Yes, but this will be more burdensome when analyzing multiple curricula. You
can revise the tool as needed when reviewing a single curriculum. When using
the HECAT for the review of multiple curricula, it will be important to
analyze them all consistently to ensure fair comparisons. This requires that
you use the same scoring and comparison criteria for all curricula. We
recommend that you determine the items to be included in your analysis before
you start the review process and, when reviewing multiple curricula, use the
same items for the review of all curricula. If you make changes to the HECAT
during the curriculum review process, you should re-review any curricula that
were analyzed and scored prior to these changes.

 Top of Page

### Beyond the HECAT

There is more to health education than just curriculum materials. Are there
CDC resources to help analyze other aspects of health education?

The HECAT was developed in response to requests from state education agencies
and local school districts for a tool that would help them select or develop
appropriate health education curriculum materials. The HECAT is limited to
this specific purpose. CDC recognizes that high-quality health education also
includes--

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * A documented, planned, and sequential program of health instruction for students from kindergarten through grade 12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Adequate time devoted for health instruction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Appropriately certified health education teachers and professional development to improve delivery of health education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health education classroom management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Administrative, parent, and community support for school health education

The School Health Index (SHI) is a school-level self-assessment and planning
guide that addresses many of these aspects. The SHI will enable you to

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Identify the strengths and weaknesses of your school's policies and programs for promoting health and safety, including school health education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Develop an action plan for improving overall health education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Involve faculty, staff, parents, students, and the community in improving school policies, programs, and services

 Top of Page

Page last reviewed: August 7, 2018

Content source: Division of Adolescent and School Health, National Center for
HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

home DASH Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About DASHplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * At A Glance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Why Schools?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Health: What Works In Schoolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Safe and Supportive School Environments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youth HIV, STD & Pregnancy Prevention Program Impact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Calendar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Contact DASH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Adolescent and School Health Policyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * DASH Partner Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policy Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Policy Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State School-Based Health Education Law Summary Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Data By Topicplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nutrition, Physical Activity, & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Profilesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Map & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Requesting Data Files
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SHPPSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * YRBSSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Maps & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Trends Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * NYPANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Disparitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Addressing Health and Educational Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Considerations for LGBTQ Youthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Protective Factors for LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Health Disparities Among LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Terminology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Survey of Todayâs Adolescent Relationships and Transitions (START)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funded Areasplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Notice of Funding Opportunities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Local Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded State Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Territorial Agency and Tribal Nation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded NGOs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Protective Factorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parent Engagement in Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Positive Parenting Practices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Services for Teensplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Condom Availability Programs (CAPs)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: In Brief
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: Things to Consider
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * High-Risk Substance Use Among Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sexual Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Evaluationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Evaluations of Innovative Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Additional Evaluation Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health & Academicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Anti-Bullying Policies and Enumeration: An Infobrief for Local Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How the WSCC Model Informs HIV, STD, and Pregnancy Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Whole School, Whole Community, Whole Child (WSCC) Model
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * GYT: Get Yourself Tested for High Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Curriculum Analysis Tool (HECAT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HECAT FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Teacher Training Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Publications, Registries, and Other Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Registries of Programs Effective in Reducing Youth Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * NYHAAD Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * HIV Information and Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Portrait Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Buttons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Palm Cards & Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specific Audiencesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Planning for Program Success
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Grants Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Program Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reporting Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parents

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

