Link: https://medlineplus.gov/balanceproblems.html    
                                Description: Balance problems can be caused by aging, infections, head injury, medications, and other health problems.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Balance Problems

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/balanceproblems.html

#  Balance Problems

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Symptoms

### Learn More

  * Living With
  * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

  * No links available

### Research

  * Statistics and Research
  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Reference Desk
  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Children
  * Older Adults
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Have you ever felt dizzy, lightheaded, or as if the room is spinning around
you? If the feeling happens often, it could be a sign of a balance problem.
Balance problems can make you feel unsteady. You may also have blurred vision,
confusion, and disorientation. They are one cause of falls and fall-related
injuries, such as a hip fracture (broken hip).

Some balance problems are due to problems in the inner ear. Others may involve
another part of the body, such as the brain or the heart. Aging, infections,
head injury, certain medicines, or problems with blood circulation may also
cause balance problems.

It is important to see your doctor about balance problems. They can be a sign
of other health problems, such as an ear infection or a stroke. Your doctor
may send you to a specialist for a diagnosis. You may need a hearing test,
blood tests, or imaging studies of your head and brain. Other possible tests
look at your eye movements, and how your body responds to movement.

In some cases, treating the illness that is causing the disorder will help
with the balance problem. Exercises, a change in diet, and some medicines also
can help.

NIH: National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders

## Start Here

  * Balance Disorders ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders) Also in Spanish
  * Dizziness Can Be a Drag: Coping with Balance Disorders ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Symptoms

  * What are the Symptoms of a Vestibular Disorder? (Vestibular Disorders Association)

## Living With

  * Exercise to Improve Your Balance ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging)
  * Improving Balance with Tai Chi (Vestibular Disorders Association) \- PDF
  * Strategies for Everyday Challenges: Tips to Help You Cope (Vestibular Disorders Association)
  * Strength and Balance Exercises (American Heart Association)

## Specifics

  * Walking (Gait), Balance, and Coordination Problems (National Multiple Sclerosis Society)

## Statistics and Research

  * Statistics about Hearing, Balance, Ear Infections and Deafness ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Balance Problems ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Natural history and aggravating factors of sagittal imbalance in marked sagittal...
  * Article: Classification of Balance Assessment Technology: A Scoping Review of Systematic Reviews.
  * Article: Non-specific chronic low back pain and physical activity: A comparison of...
  * Balance Problems -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

  * NIDCD Glossary ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders)
  * Types of Vestibular Disorders (Vestibular Disorders Association)

## Find an Expert

  * National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

  * Balance Disorders (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
  * Dizziness and Balance Problems in Kids: Spinning Sensations and Unsteadiness ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish

## Older Adults

  * Age-Related Dizziness and Imbalance (Vestibular Disorders Association) \- PDF

## Patient Handouts

  * Dizziness (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Vertigo-associated disorders (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Balance Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BalanceProblems.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Dizziness
  * Vertigo-associated disorders

## Related Health Topics

  * Dizziness and Vertigo
  * Falls
  * Walking Problems

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Balance Problems is the National
Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 22 January 2020 Topic last reviewed: 7 July 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

