

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Adolescent and School Health

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# YRBS Data Summary & Trends

Minus

Related Pages

CDC's _Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report_ Surveillance Summary on the 2017
National Youth Risk Behavior Survey (YRBS) provides the most recent
surveillance data on health behaviors and experiences among high school
students across the country. It reports on risks that contribute to the
leading causes of death and disability among youth and young adults.

Trends Report

![](/healthyyouth/data/yrbs/images/trendsreport-cover.png)

The _Youth Risk Behavior Survey Data Summary and Trends Report_ uses YRBS data
to focus on four priority focus areas associated with STDs, including HIV, and
unintended teen pregnancy:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sexual Behavior
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * High-Risk Substance Use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Violence Victimization, and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Mental Health and Suicide.

To raise awareness and understanding, this report presents the 2017 data by
sex, by race/ethnicity, and for sexual minority youth. The report looks at the
past decade and examines linear YRBS trends for each focus area.

pdf iconView Data Summary and Trends Report

Trends Fact Sheets

![trend_thumbnail](/healthyyouth/data/yrbs/images/trend_thumbnail.png)

The Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System was developed in 1990 to monitor
health behaviors that contribute markedly to the leading causes of death,
disability, and social problems among youth in the United States. These
behaviors are often established during childhood and early adolescence and can
continue into adulthood. These fact sheets include trends from 1991-2017
related to behaviors associated with HIV, STDs, and unintended teen pregnancy.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Behaviors that Contribute to Violence pdf icon[PDF - 2 pages]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Behaviors that Contribute to Violence on School Property pdf icon[PDF - 2 pages]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Marijuana, Cocaine, and Other Illegal Drug Use pdf icon[PDF - 2 pages]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sexual Behaviors and HIV Testing pdf icon[PDF - 2 pages]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Suicide-Related Behaviors pdf icon[PDF - 2 pages]

### Infographics

![HEALTH OF HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS: YOUTH RISK BEHAVIOR SURVEY RESULTS Although
progress has been made, there are still too many students reporting risky
sexual behaviors, high-risk substance use, violence victimization, and poor
mental health, including suicide risk. HIGH-RISK PROGRESS SUBSTANCE USE
PROGRESS Fewer students have ever used illicit drugs.* *cocaine, heroin,
methamphetamines, inhalants, hallucinogens, or ecstasy. 2007 - 23% compared to
2017 -14%  CHALLENGES Nearly 1 in 7 students have ever misused prescription
opioids. 14% in 2017  WHY IS THIS INFORMATION IMPORTANT? These health risk
behaviors and experiences can lead to HIV, other sexually transmitted
diseases, and pregnancy. WHAT CAN BE DONE? SCHOOLS, FAMILIES, AND COMMUNITIES
CAN WORK TOGETHER TO POSITIVELY AFFECT STUDENTS’ HEALTH. RESOURCES Learn more
about student health behaviors on CDC’s Healthy Youth website
\(www.cdc.gov/healthyyouth\).  Source: CDC, YRBS Data Summary & Trends Report:
2007-2017](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/YRBS_infographic_HRSU.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![HEALTH OF HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS: YOUTH RISK BEHAVIOR SURVEY RESULTS
Although progress has been made, there are still too many students reporting
risky sexual behaviors, high-risk substance use, violence victimization, and
poor mental health, including suicide risk. HIGH-RISK PROGRESS SUBSTANCE USE
PROGRESS Fewer students have ever used illicit drugs.* *cocaine, heroin,
methamphetamines, inhalants, hallucinogens, or ecstasy. 2007 - 23&#37;
compared to 2017 -14&#37;  CHALLENGES Nearly 1 in 7 students have ever misused
prescription opioids. 14&#37; in 2017  WHY IS THIS INFORMATION IMPORTANT?
These health risk behaviors and experiences can lead to HIV, other sexually
transmitted diseases, and pregnancy. WHAT CAN BE DONE? SCHOOLS, FAMILIES, AND
COMMUNITIES CAN WORK TOGETHER TO POSITIVELY AFFECT STUDENTS’ HEALTH. RESOURCES
Learn more about student health behaviors on CDC’s Healthy Youth website
\(www.cdc.gov/healthyyouth\).  Source: CDC, YRBS Data Summary &amp; Trends
Report:
2007-2017](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/YRBS_infographic_HRSU.png)

## High-Risk Substance Use

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![HEALTH OF HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS: YOUTH RISK BEHAVIOR SURVEY RESULTS Although
progress has been made, there are still too many students reporting risky
sexual behaviors, high-risk substance use, violence victimization, and poor
mental health, including suicide risk. MENTAL HEALTH PROGRESS Most students
experience positive mental health. Adults can sup port students’ mental health
by watching for warning signs and linking students to help.  CHALLENGES During
the past year, almost 1 in 3 students persistently felt sad or hopeless. 29%
in 2007 compared to 32% in 2017  Students who made a suicide plan: 11% in
2007, 14% in 2017  WHY IS THIS INFORMATION IMPORTANT? These health risk
behaviors and experiences can lead to HIV, other sexually transmitted
diseases, and pregnancy. WHAT CAN BE DONE? SCHOOLS, FAMILIES, AND COMMUNITIES
CAN WORK TOGETHER TO POSITIVELY AFFECT STUDENTS’ HEALTH. RESOURCES Learn more
about student health behaviors on CDC’s Healthy Youth website
\(www.cdc.gov/healthyyouth\).  Source: CDC, YRBS Data Summary & Trends Report:
2007-2017](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/YRBS_infographic_MH.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![HEALTH OF HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS: YOUTH RISK BEHAVIOR SURVEY RESULTS
Although progress has been made, there are still too many students reporting
risky sexual behaviors, high-risk substance use, violence victimization, and
poor mental health, including suicide risk. MENTAL HEALTH PROGRESS Most
students experience positive mental health. Adults can sup port students’
mental health by watching for warning signs and linking students to help.
CHALLENGES During the past year, almost 1 in 3 students persistently felt sad
or hopeless. 29&#37; in 2007 compared to 32&#37; in 2017  Students who made a
suicide plan: 11&#37; in 2007, 14&#37; in 2017  WHY IS THIS INFORMATION
IMPORTANT? These health risk behaviors and experiences can lead to HIV, other
sexually transmitted diseases, and pregnancy. WHAT CAN BE DONE? SCHOOLS,
FAMILIES, AND COMMUNITIES CAN WORK TOGETHER TO POSITIVELY AFFECT STUDENTS’
HEALTH. RESOURCES Learn more about student health behaviors on CDC’s Healthy
Youth website \(www.cdc.gov/healthyyouth\).  Source: CDC, YRBS Data Summary
&amp; Trends Report:
2007-2017](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/YRBS_infographic_MH.png)

## Mental Health

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![HEALTH OF HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS: YOUTH RISK BEHAVIOR SURVEY RESULTS Although
progress has been made, there are still too many students reporting risky
sexual behaviors, high-risk substance use, violence victimization, and poor
mental health, including suicide risk. SEXUAL BEHAVIORS  PROGRESS Fewer
students are having sex.   48% in 2007 compared to 40% in 2017   Fewer
students have had 4 or more sex partners. 15% in 2007 compared to 10% in 2017
CHALLENGES Fewer students who have sex are using condoms. 62% in 2007 compared
to 54% in 2017  WHY IS THIS INFORMATION IMPORTANT? These health risk behaviors
and experiences can lead to HIV, other sexually transmitted diseases, and
pregnancy. WHAT CAN BE DONE? SCHOOLS, FAMILIES, AND COMMUNITIES CAN WORK
TOGETHER TO POSITIVELY AFFECT STUDENTS’ HEALTH. RESOURCES Learn more about
student health behaviors on CDC’s Healthy Youth website
\(www.cdc.gov/healthyyouth\).  Source: CDC, YRBS Data Summary & Trends Report:
2007-2017](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/YRBS_infographic_SB.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![HEALTH OF HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS: YOUTH RISK BEHAVIOR SURVEY RESULTS
Although progress has been made, there are still too many students reporting
risky sexual behaviors, high-risk substance use, violence victimization, and
poor mental health, including suicide risk. SEXUAL BEHAVIORS  PROGRESS Fewer
students are having sex.   48&#37; in 2007 compared to 40&#37; in 2017   Fewer
students have had 4 or more sex partners. 15&#37; in 2007 compared to 10&#37;
in 2017  CHALLENGES Fewer students who have sex are using condoms. 62&#37; in
2007 compared to 54&#37; in 2017  WHY IS THIS INFORMATION IMPORTANT? These
health risk behaviors and experiences can lead to HIV, other sexually
transmitted diseases, and pregnancy. WHAT CAN BE DONE? SCHOOLS, FAMILIES, AND
COMMUNITIES CAN WORK TOGETHER TO POSITIVELY AFFECT STUDENTS’ HEALTH. RESOURCES
Learn more about student health behaviors on CDC’s Healthy Youth website
\(www.cdc.gov/healthyyouth\).  Source: CDC, YRBS Data Summary &amp; Trends
Report:
2007-2017](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/YRBS_infographic_SB.png)

## Sexual Behaviors

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![HEALTH OF HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS: YOUTH RISK BEHAVIOR SURVEY RESULTS Although
progress has been made, there are still too many students reporting risky
sexual behaviors, high-risk substance use, violence victimization, and poor
mental health, including suicide risk. VIOLENCE VICTIMIZATION  PROGRESS Fewer
male students are bullied at school. 19% in 2007, 16% in 2017  Fewer students
experience sexual dating violence.  10% in 2013, 7% in 2017  CHALLENGES About
1 in 5 students are still bullied at school. 20% in 2007, 19% in 2017  More
than 1 in 10 female students have ever been forced to have sex. 11% in 2007
and 2017  WHY IS THIS INFORMATION IMPORTANT? These health risk behaviors and
experiences can lead to HIV, other sexually transmitted diseases, and
pregnancy. WHAT CAN BE DONE? SCHOOLS, FAMILIES, AND COMMUNITIES CAN WORK
TOGETHER TO POSITIVELY AFFECT STUDENTS’ HEALTH. RESOURCES Learn more about
student health behaviors on CDC’s Healthy Youth website
\(www.cdc.gov/healthyyouth\).  Source: CDC, YRBS Data Summary & Trends Report:
2007-2017](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/YRBS_infographic_VV.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![HEALTH OF HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS: YOUTH RISK BEHAVIOR SURVEY RESULTS
Although progress has been made, there are still too many students reporting
risky sexual behaviors, high-risk substance use, violence victimization, and
poor mental health, including suicide risk. VIOLENCE VICTIMIZATION  PROGRESS
Fewer male students are bullied at school. 19&#37; in 2007, 16&#37; in 2017
Fewer students experience sexual dating violence.  10&#37; in 2013, 7&#37; in
2017  CHALLENGES About 1 in 5 students are still bullied at school. 20&#37; in
2007, 19&#37; in 2017  More than 1 in 10 female students have ever been forced
to have sex. 11&#37; in 2007 and 2017  WHY IS THIS INFORMATION IMPORTANT?
These health risk behaviors and experiences can lead to HIV, other sexually
transmitted diseases, and pregnancy. WHAT CAN BE DONE? SCHOOLS, FAMILIES, AND
COMMUNITIES CAN WORK TOGETHER TO POSITIVELY AFFECT STUDENTS’ HEALTH. RESOURCES
Learn more about student health behaviors on CDC’s Healthy Youth website
\(www.cdc.gov/healthyyouth\).  Source: CDC, YRBS Data Summary &amp; Trends
Report:
2007-2017](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/YRBS_infographic_VV.png)

## Violence Victimization

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

Page last reviewed: February 18, 2020

Content source: Division of Adolescent and School Health, National Center for
HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

home DASH Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About DASHplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * At A Glance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Why Schools?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Health: What Works In Schoolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Safe and Supportive School Environments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youth HIV, STD & Pregnancy Prevention Program Impact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Calendar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Contact DASH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Adolescent and School Health Policyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * DASH Partner Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policy Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Policy Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State School-Based Health Education Law Summary Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Data By Topicplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nutrition, Physical Activity, & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Profilesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Map & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Requesting Data Files
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SHPPSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * YRBSSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Maps & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Trends Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * NYPANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Disparitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Addressing Health and Educational Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Considerations for LGBTQ Youthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Protective Factors for LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Health Disparities Among LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Terminology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Survey of Todayâs Adolescent Relationships and Transitions (START)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funded Areasplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Notice of Funding Opportunities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Local Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded State Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Territorial Agency and Tribal Nation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded NGOs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Protective Factorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parent Engagement in Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Positive Parenting Practices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Services for Teensplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Condom Availability Programs (CAPs)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: In Brief
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: Things to Consider
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * High-Risk Substance Use Among Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sexual Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Evaluationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Evaluations of Innovative Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Additional Evaluation Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health & Academicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Anti-Bullying Policies and Enumeration: An Infobrief for Local Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How the WSCC Model Informs HIV, STD, and Pregnancy Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Whole School, Whole Community, Whole Child (WSCC) Model
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * GYT: Get Yourself Tested for High Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Curriculum Analysis Tool (HECAT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HECAT FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Teacher Training Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Publications, Registries, and Other Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Registries of Programs Effective in Reducing Youth Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * NYHAAD Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * HIV Information and Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Portrait Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Buttons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Palm Cards & Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specific Audiencesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Planning for Program Success
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Grants Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Program Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reporting Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parents

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

