

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Adolescent and School Health

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Health Services for Teens

Minus

Related Pages

Teens in the United States are less likely than younger children and adults to
receive recommended preventive health services in general. Schools can play a
critical role in facilitating the delivery of health services to teens,
including sexual health services (SHS). Although teens are generally healthy,
sometimes they engage in sexual behaviors that put them at risk for HIV, STDs,
and pregnancy. For instance, young people (13-24) accounted for an estimated
22% of all new HIV infections in the United States,1 and nearly half of the 20
million new STDs reported each year.2

![A group of teens](/healthyyouth/images/shs/back-to-school.jpg)

Among U.S. high school students surveyed in 2017, 40% had ever had sex and 54%
of sexually active students did not use a condom the last time they had sex.3
Additionally, although teen pregnancy rates have declined consistently during
the past 25 years, the rates of unintended pregnancy still remain high.

One way to prevent HIV, STDs and pregnancy among teens is to increase their
access to and use of SHS, including HIV testing, contraceptive counseling,
gonorrhea and chlamydia testing and treatment, and Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
vaccination.4,5

Several national guidelines for preventive care specifically include
recommendations for SHS for teens. Despite these official guidelines and
recommendations, teens may not seek or have access to recommended SHS. For
instance, in 2017, only 9% of all students reported having ever been tested
for HIV,3 and a recent online survey of young people found that only 7% of
15-19 year olds had been tested for STDs in the previous year.6

### Schools can help increase student access to health services

building icon

Schools have direct daily contact with more than 16.5 million students
attending grades 9-12, making schools vital partners in connecting teens to
health services.

School districts can help teens access SHS either through on-site school
services or by referrals to youth-friendly health care providers in the
community. Many U.S. schools already have healthcare service infrastructure in
place, including school-based health centers (SBHCs) or school nurses, and can
play an important role in providing adolescents access to information to help
reduce their risk and to services if they are needed.

Condom Availability Programs (CAPs)

![Group of teens smiling](/healthyyouth/images/shs/teens-smiling-small.jpg)

Condom availability programs (CAPs) began in the early 1990s and are one way
schools can help prevent HIV, STD, and pregnancy among teens. Research has
shown that CAPs in high schools do not increase sexual activity among teens
and can increase condom use among sexually active students and students at
high risk.

Learn More

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What CDC is Doing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Related Resources

CDC recommends actions that school districts and schools can take to ensure
students have access to key SHS through on-site services at schools, or off-
site referrals to youth-friendly, community-based health service providers.
SHS can be provided by or linked to SBHCs, school nurses, and community
healthcare providers.

One of CDC's key programmatic strategies is to improve schools' capacity to
increase adolescents' access to key preventive SHS either by providing on-site
services or making referrals to adolescent-friendly community-based health
service providers. CDC provides program guidancepdf icon on how to increase
student access to SHS by encouraging schools to

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Help ensure student confidentiality;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Increase awareness of adolescent sexual health needs by providing medically accurate information to district and school staff, community partners, and parents;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Raise student awareness of the need for and availability of SHS (e.g., school-wide social marketing campaigns);
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Establish solid community partners that can help deliver SHS on-site or serve as a source of referral; community partners can assist with sexual health education or professional development trainings;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Establish a referral system that helps link students to youth-friendly providers; and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Provide SHS on-site by expanding or making current services more appealing to students or adding new services.

![hiv testing fact sheet
thumbnail](/healthyyouth/images/factsheet_thumbnails/hiv_testing_fact_sheet_thumbnail.png)

**How Schools Can Support HIV Testing Among Adolescents** pdf icon This fact
sheet explains why schools are important partners in supporting HIV testing
among students and linking them to confidential health services.

![one-on-one time fact sheet thumbnail](/healthyyouth/images/shs/one-on-
onetime_factsheet_thumb.jpg)

**Teen Health Services and One-On-One Time with A Healthcare Provider: An
Infobrief for Parents** pdf icon This infobrief explains how parents can help
create a trusting relationship by allowing their teen one-on-one time with
their healthcare provider.

![Sexual Health Services \(SHS\) Fact Sheet
](/healthyyouth/images/shs/shs_fact_sheet_thumb.jpg)

**Sexual Health Services (SHS) Fact Sheet** pdf icon This fact sheet is for
school districts and education agencies and explains the importance of health
care resources and increasing student access to preventive health services.

![thumbnail](/healthyyouth/images/shs/referral_system_kit-thumb.jpg)

**Developing a Referral System for Sexual Health Services** external icon

![Healthy Students, Promising Futures State and Local Action Steps and
Practices to Improve School-Based Health Fact Sheet cover
image](/healthyyouth/images/shs/toolkit-thumb.jpg)

**Healthy Students, Promising Futures** pdf iconexternal icon This toolkit
provides state and local action steps and practices to improve school-based
health.

![Adolescent Health: Coverage and Access to Care Fact Sheet
Cover](/healthyyouth/images/shs/8236_thumb.jpg)

**Adolescent Health: Coverage and Access to Care** pdf iconexternal icon

Related Resources

![hiv testing fact sheet
thumbnail](/healthyyouth/images/factsheet_thumbnails/hiv_testing_fact_sheet_thumbnail.png)

**How Schools Can Support HIV Testing Among Adolescents** pdf icon[PDF - 1 MB]
This fact sheet explains why schools are important partners in supporting HIV
testing among students and linking them to confidential health services.

![one-on-one time fact sheet thumbnail](/healthyyouth/images/shs/one-on-
onetime_factsheet_thumb.jpg)

**Teen Health Services and One-On-One Time with A Healthcare Provider: An
Infobrief for Parents** pdf icon[PDF - 310 KB] This infobrief explains how
parents can help create a trusting relationship by allowing their teen one-on-
one time with their healthcare provider.

![SHS Thumb](/healthyyouth/images/shs/shs_fact_sheet_thumb.jpg)

**Sexual Health Services (SHS) Fact Sheet** pdf icon[PDF - 797 KB] This fact
sheet is for school districts and education agencies and explains the
importance of health care resources and increasing student access to
preventive health services.

![thumbnail](/healthyyouth/images/shs/referral_system_kit-thumb.jpg)

**Developing a Referral System for Sexual Health Services** external icon

### References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. CDC. Diagnoses of HIV Infection in the United States and Dependent Areas, 2015pdf icon. _HIV Surveillance Report 2015_ , vol. 27; November 2016.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2. CDC. _Sexually Transmitted Disease Surveillance 2014_ pdf icon. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; 2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3. CDC. Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance--United States, 2017. _MMWR_ 2018;67(No. SS-7).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4. U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Guide to Clinical Preventive Servicesexternal icon. 2nd Edition. Alexandria VA: International Medical Publishing, 1996.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5. CDC. Revised Recommendations for HIV Testing of Adults, Adolescents, and Pregnant Women in Health-Care Settings _MMWR_ 2006;55:1-17.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6. Cuffe KM, Newton-Levinson A, Gift TL, McFarlane M, Leichliter JS. 2016. Sexually Transmitted Infection Testing Among Adolescents and Young Adults in the United States.J Adolesc Health; 58(5):512-9

Page last reviewed: October 24, 2019

Content source: Division of Adolescent and School Health, National Center for
HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

home DASH Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About DASHplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * At A Glance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Why Schools?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Health: What Works In Schoolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Safe and Supportive School Environments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youth HIV, STD & Pregnancy Prevention Program Impact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Calendar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Contact DASH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Adolescent and School Health Policyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * DASH Partner Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policy Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Policy Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State School-Based Health Education Law Summary Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Data By Topicplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nutrition, Physical Activity, & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Profilesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Map & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Requesting Data Files
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SHPPSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * YRBSSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Maps & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Trends Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * NYPANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Disparitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Addressing Health and Educational Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Considerations for LGBTQ Youthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Protective Factors for LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Health Disparities Among LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Terminology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Survey of Todayâs Adolescent Relationships and Transitions (START)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funded Areasplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Notice of Funding Opportunities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Local Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded State Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Territorial Agency and Tribal Nation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded NGOs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Protective Factorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parent Engagement in Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Positive Parenting Practices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Services for Teensplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Condom Availability Programs (CAPs)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: In Brief
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: Things to Consider
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * High-Risk Substance Use Among Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sexual Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Evaluationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Evaluations of Innovative Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Additional Evaluation Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health & Academicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Anti-Bullying Policies and Enumeration: An Infobrief for Local Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How the WSCC Model Informs HIV, STD, and Pregnancy Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Whole School, Whole Community, Whole Child (WSCC) Model
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * GYT: Get Yourself Tested for High Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Curriculum Analysis Tool (HECAT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HECAT FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Teacher Training Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Publications, Registries, and Other Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Registries of Programs Effective in Reducing Youth Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * NYHAAD Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * HIV Information and Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Portrait Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Buttons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Palm Cards & Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specific Audiencesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Planning for Program Success
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Grants Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Program Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reporting Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parents

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

