Link: https://medlineplus.gov/tremor.html    
                                Description: Tremors are unintentional trembling or shaking movements in one or more parts of the body. Read about the types, such as essential tremor, and causes.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Tremor

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/tremor.html

#  Tremor

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

  * Living With
  * Related Issues
  * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

  * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Children
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is a tremor?

A tremor is a rhythmic shaking movement in one or more parts of your body. It
is involuntary, meaning that you cannot control it. This shaking happens
because of muscle contractions.

A tremor is most often in your hands, but it could also affect your arms,
head, vocal cords, trunk, and legs. It may come and go, or it may be constant.
Tremor can happen on its own or be caused by another disorder.

### What are the types of tremor?

There are several types of tremor, including

  * **Essential tremor** , sometimes called benign essential tremor. This is the most common type. It usually affects your hands, but it can also affect your head, voice, tongue, legs, and trunk.
  * **Parkinsonian tremor** , which is a common symptom in people who have Parkinson's disease. It is usually affects one or both hands when they are at rest, but it can affect the chin, lips, face, and legs.
  * **Dystonic tremor** , which happens in people who have dystonia. Dystonia is a movement disorder in which you have involuntary muscle contractions. The contractions cause you to have twisting and repetitive movements. It can affect any muscle in the body.

### What causes tremor?

Generally, tremor is caused by a problem in the deep parts of the brain that
control movements. For most types, the cause is unknown. Some types are
inherited and run in families. There can also be other causes, such as

  * Neurologic disorders, including multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, stroke, and traumatic brain injury
  * Certain medicines, such as asthma medicines, amphetamines, caffeine, corticosteroids, and medicines used for certain psychiatric and neurological disorders
  * Alcohol use disorder or alcohol withdrawal
  * Mercury poisoning
  * Hyperthyroidism (overactive thyroid)
  * Liver or kidney failure
  * Anxiety or panic

### Who is at risk for tremor?

Anyone can get tremor, but it is most common in middle-aged and older adults.
For certain types, having a family history raises your risk of getting it.

### What are the symptoms of tremor?

Symptoms of tremor may include

  * Rhythmic shaking in the hands, arms, head, legs, or torso
  * Shaky voice
  * Difficulty writing or drawing
  * Problems holding and controlling utensils, such as a spoon

### How is tremor diagnosed?

To make a diagnosis, your health care provider

  * Will take your medical history
  * Will do a physical exam, which includes checking 
    * Whether the tremor happens when the muscles are at rest or in action
    * The location of the tremor
    * How often you have the tremor and how strong it is
  * Will do a neurological exam, including checking for 
    * Problems with balance
    * Problems with speech
    * Increased muscle stiffness
  * May do blood or urine tests to look for the cause
  * May do imaging tests to help figure out if the cause is damage in your brain
  * May do tests which check your abilities to do daily tasks such as handwriting and holding a fork or cup
  * May do an electromyogram. This is a test which measures involuntary muscle activity and how your muscles respond to nerve stimulation

### What are the treatments for tremor?

There is no cure for most forms of tremor, but there are treatments to help
manage symptoms. In some cases, the symptoms may be so mild that you do not
need treatment.

Finding the right treatment depends on getting the right diagnosis of the
cause. Tremor caused by another medical condition may get better or go away
when you treat that condition. If your tremor is caused by a certain medicine,
stopping that medicine usually makes the tremor go away.

Treatments for tremor where the cause is not found include

  * **Medicines.** There are different medicines for the specific types of tremor. Another option is Botox injections, which can treat several different types.
  * **Surgery** may be used for severe cases that do not get better with medicines. The most common type is deep brain stimulation (DBS).
  * **Physical, speech-language, and occupational therapy** , which may help to control tremor and deal with the daily challenges caused by the tremor

If you find that caffeine and other stimulants trigger your tremors, it may be
helpful to cut them from your diet.

NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Start Here

  * Essential Tremor (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
  * Essential Tremor ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
  * Tremor ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) \- Short Summary
  * Tremor ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

  * Essential Tremor (ET): Surgical Options (International Essential Tremor Foundation) \- PDF
  * Treatment of Essential Tremor (American Academy of Neurology) \- PDF

## Living With

  * Essential Tremor (ET): Coping Tips for Everyday Living (International Essential Tremor Foundation) \- PDF

## Related Issues

  * Essential Tremor vs. Parkinson's Disease: How Do They Differ? (International Essential Tremor Foundation) \- PDF

## Genetics

  * Genetics Home Reference: essential tremor ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Videos and Tutorials

  * Essential Tremor Is More Than a Tremor ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (International Essential Tremor Foundation)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Essential Tremor ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Tremor ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Quantitative assessment of Parkinsonian tremor by using biosensor device.
  * Article: Clinical and neural responses to cognitive behavioral therapy for functional tremor.
  * Article: Fast Orthostatic Tremor in Parkinson's Disease: Case Report and Comprehensive Review...
  * Tremor -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

  * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Children

  * Children with Essential Tremor (International Essential Tremor Foundation) \- PDF

## Patient Handouts

  * Essential tremor (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Tremor (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Tremor - self-care (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Tremor](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Tremor.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Essential tremor
  * Tremor
  * Tremor - self-care

## Related Health Topics

  * Movement Disorders
  * Parkinson's Disease

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Tremor is the National Institute
of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 16 December 2019 Topic last reviewed: 9 September 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

