

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Adolescent and School Health

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# What Works: Sexual Health Services

Minus

Related Pages

![](/healthyyouth/whatworks/images/GettyImages-1051247498-medium.jpg)

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's Division of Adolescent and
School Health (DASH) has established an evidence-based approach schools can
implement to help prevent HIV, STDs, and unintended pregnancy among
adolescents. It includes quality health education, systems that connect
students to health services, and safer and more supportive school
environments. This info brief focuses on increasing access to **sexual health
services** --preventive health care services that schools can connect students
to either on site or in the community.

pdf iconPrint Version

What are sexual health services?

Just **2% of schools** across states and **12% of schools** across large urban
school districts provide condoms for students.

_Source: 2018 School Health Profiles_

Sexual health services (SHS) cover broad preventive measures, like taking a
sexual history or risk assessment; education; and counseling, testing, and
treatment for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and sexually transmitted
diseases (STDs). SHS can significantly improve an adolescent's immediate and
lifelong health by identifying health issues early and providing services. As
young people grow and become sexually active, these services provide health
information and tools to help them prevent HIV, STDs, and unintended
pregnancy. SHS also ensure that health issues are caught early to enable
effective treatment. Several national guidelines for preventive care* and
treatment recommend providing SHS for adolescents.

However, many students may not seek or have access to SHS. Even among those
who do have access, missed opportunities for receiving SHS are common. Schools
can play a critical role in raising awareness about the importance of SHS and
connecting students to these preventive services.

Examples of SHS include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * HIV testing and treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * STD testing and treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Contraceptive services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health guidance and counseling.

*U.S. Preventive Services Task Force; American Academy of Pediatrics Bright Futures Guidelines; Society for Adolescent Health and Medicine

How can schools increase access to sexual health services?

Schools can provide students with access to sexual health services on site or
in their community.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Schools can offer **on-site SHS** through their own healthcare infrastructure, such as school-based health centers (SBHCs) and school nurses. Schools may also bring in community partners to provide services, such as periodic, school-wide STD screening events or mobile clinics.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Schools that cannot provide ongoing SHS on school grounds may link students to **youth-friendly providers in the community** through referrals. To create a successful referral system, schools need to build strong relationships with community providers, such as health departments, community-based  organizations, and primary care providers. The cornerstone of a referral system is a **referral guide** --a list of local youth-friendly SHS providers along with their locations, phone numbers or websites, and other information.

In addition to linking students to services, schools can help improve staff,
parent, and student knowledge, awareness, and comfort with adolescent needs
for sexual health information and services. For example:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hosting quarterly or yearly meetings with healthcare providers can give school staff the opportunity to meet providers, learn about the services they offer, and create ways for students to connect with them.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Professional development to build staff comfort, capacity, and expertise in adolescent sexual health can improve clinical services in a variety of settings, including SBHCs.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sharing information with parents and families on SHS-related topics--such as recommendations for routine, preventive care and how to create a trusting relationship with a provider--may help support student use of SHS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Marketing campaigns for students can raise their awareness of SHS, encourage positive attitudes about getting services, and improve healthy behaviors.

Keys to Success

![48x48_shs_success](/healthyyouth/whatworks/images/48x48_shs_success.png)

Provide professional development to staff on how to use a referral guide and
how to create a referral.  See _Developing a Referral System for Sexual Health
Services: An Implementation Kit for Education Agencies_ external icon for tips
and tools.

Keys to Success

![48x48_shs_success](/healthyyouth/whatworks/images/48x48_shs_success.png)

Train a broad selection of school staff--from teachers, counselors, and social
workers, to coaches and security guards--to know the basics about SHS. This
includes educating staff about laws and policies around patient
confidentiality and minors' rights to consent to care, as well as policies and
procedures for parental consent.

What are the benefits of increasing access to sexual health services to
adolescents?

Keys to Success

![48x48_shs_success](/healthyyouth/whatworks/images/48x48_shs_success.png)

Incorporate information about SHS into your school's sexual health education
curriculum. This leverages your healthcare team's efforts.

Increasing access to and awareness of sexual health services has positive
impacts on student health.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * SBHCs are associated with increased contraceptive use and sexual health care visits, and declines in unintended pregnancy.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * A referral program that helps school nurses connect students to youth-friendly, community health providers increases students' use of contraception services, STD testing, and counseling.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Other school programs, such as condom availability programs, school-based STD screening events, and sexual health awareness campaigns, can improve students' beliefs and attitudes about condom use and STD testing, and their use of SHS.

What does increasing access to sexual health services look like in action?

Here's how schools can improve student access to sexual health services:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Provide annual training and professional development to school and health service staff to support SHS activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Teach students how to access school-based and community SHS as part of their sexual health education curriculum pdf icon[PDF - 70 pages]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Improve student use and quality of SHS provided by school-based health centers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Establish or improve use of a referral system to link sexually active students to community healthcare providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Raise student awareness of SHS programs by implementing school-wide, student-planned marketing campaigns
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Organize field trips for students and key school staff to visit community-based, provider organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Conduct school-based HIV and STD screening events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Implement or improve a condom availability program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Distribute SHS-related materials to parents and families.

For More Information

Learn more about increasing access to sexual health services in the Program
Guidance.

Check out CDC tools and resources for increasing student access to SHS.

References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. CDC. PS18-1807 Program guidance: Guidance for school-based HIV/STD prevention (component 2) recipients of PS18-1807. Atlanta, GA: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; 2019.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2. Hagan JF, Shaw JS, Duncan PM. Bright futures: Guidelines for health supervision of infants, children, and adolescents. 4th ed. Elk Grove Village (IL): American Academy of Pediatrics; 2007.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3. US Preventive Services Task Force. Guide to clinical preventive services. Alexandria (VA): International Medical Publishing; 1996.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4. Elster AB, Kuznets NJ. AMA guidelines for adolescent preventive services (GAPS): Recommendations and rationale. Baltimore (MD): Williams & Wilkins; 1994.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5. Klein JD, Handwerker L, Sesselberg TS. Measuring quality of adolescent preventive services of health plan enrollees and school-based health center users. J Adolesc Health 2007;41(2):153-60.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6. Ethier KA, Dittus PJ, DeRosa CJ. School-based health center access, reproductive health care, and contraceptive use among sexually experienced high school students. J Adolesc Health 2011;48(6):562-65.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7. Amaral G, Geierstanger S, Soleimanpour S. Mental health characteristics and health-seeking behaviors of adolescent school-based health center users and nonusers. J Sch Health 2011;81(3):138-45.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8. Soleimanpour S, Geierstanger SP, Kaller S. The role of school health centers in health care access and client outcomes. Am J Pub Health 2010;100(9):1597-603.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9. Dittus PJ, De Rosa CJ, Jeffries RA, Afifi AA, Cumberland WG, Chung EQ. The Project Connect health systems intervention: linking sexually experienced youth to sexual and reproductive health care. J Adolesc Health 2014;55(4):528-34.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10. Dittus PJ, Harper CR, Becasen JS. Structural intervention with school nurses increases receipt of sexual health care among male high school students. J Adolesc Health 2018;62(1):52-8.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11. Loosier PS, Doll S, Lepar D. Effectiveness of an adaptation of the Project Connect health systems intervention: youth and clinic-level findings. J Sch Health 2016;86(8):595-603.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12. De Rosa CJ, Jeffries RA, Afifi AA, Cumberland WG, Chung EQ, Kerndt PR. Improving the implementation of a condom availability program in urban high schools. J Adolesc Health 2012;51(6):572-9.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  13. Dunville R, Peterson A, Liddon N. Sustained reduction in chlamydia infections following a school-based screening: Detroit, 2010-2015\. Am J Pub Health 2018;108(2):231-3.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  14. Rohrbach LA, Berglas NF, Jerman P. A rights-based sexuality education curriculum for adolescents: 1-year outcomes from a cluster-randomized trial. J Adolesc Health 2015;57(4):399-406.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  15. Liddon N, Carver L, Robin L, Harper C, Murray C, Habel MA. Get Yourself Tested (GYT) goes to high school: adapted STD prevention campaign and associated student use of clinic STD testing services. Sex Transm Dis 2019;46(6):383-8.

Page last reviewed: February 3, 2020

Content source: Division of Adolescent and School Health, National Center for
HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

home DASH Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About DASHplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * At A Glance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Why Schools?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Health: What Works In Schoolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Safe and Supportive School Environments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youth HIV, STD & Pregnancy Prevention Program Impact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Calendar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Contact DASH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Adolescent and School Health Policyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * DASH Partner Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policy Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Policy Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State School-Based Health Education Law Summary Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Data By Topicplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nutrition, Physical Activity, & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Profilesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Map & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Requesting Data Files
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SHPPSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * YRBSSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Maps & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Trends Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * NYPANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Disparitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Addressing Health and Educational Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Considerations for LGBTQ Youthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Protective Factors for LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Health Disparities Among LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Terminology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Survey of Todayâs Adolescent Relationships and Transitions (START)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funded Areasplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Notice of Funding Opportunities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Local Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded State Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Territorial Agency and Tribal Nation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded NGOs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Protective Factorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parent Engagement in Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Positive Parenting Practices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Services for Teensplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Condom Availability Programs (CAPs)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: In Brief
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: Things to Consider
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * High-Risk Substance Use Among Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sexual Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Evaluationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Evaluations of Innovative Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Additional Evaluation Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health & Academicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Anti-Bullying Policies and Enumeration: An Infobrief for Local Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How the WSCC Model Informs HIV, STD, and Pregnancy Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Whole School, Whole Community, Whole Child (WSCC) Model
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * GYT: Get Yourself Tested for High Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Curriculum Analysis Tool (HECAT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HECAT FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Teacher Training Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Publications, Registries, and Other Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Registries of Programs Effective in Reducing Youth Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * NYHAAD Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * HIV Information and Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Portrait Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Buttons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Palm Cards & Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specific Audiencesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Planning for Program Success
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Grants Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Program Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reporting Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parents

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

