

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Adolescent and School Health

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Frequently Asked Questions: Promoting Adolescent Health through School-Based
HIV Prevention (CDC-RFA-PS18-1807)

Minus

Related Pages

The following topics contain frequently asked questions (FAQs) about funding
for Promoting Adolescent Health through School-Based HIV Prevention (CDC-RFA-
PS18-1807).

Contact John Canfield to access the informational call recordings.

Open All Close All

**FAQ Topics**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Component 1: School-based Surveillance Specific 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Component 2: School-based HIV/STD Prevention Specific
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Component 3: Technical Assistance and Capacity Building Specific
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Additional Questions

### Component 1: School-based Surveillance Specific

#### Q1: Can my agency apply for Component 1 funding and use the funding for
surveillance other than the Youth Risk Behavior Survey (YRBS) or School Health
Profiles (Profiles)?

A1: No. Component 1 funding is intended only for the administration,
dissemination, and use of the YRBS and Profiles. Support for any other school-
based surveillance activities with these funds is prohibited.

#### Q2: Our education agency does not conduct the Youth Risk Behavior Survey
(YRBS) as we use another statewide survey, can we use funds to complete School
Health Profiles (Profiles)? Our education agency does not conduct School
Health Profiles (Profiles) as we use another statewide survey, can we still
use funds to complete the Youth Risk Behavior Survey (YRBS)?

A2: While agencies are encouraged to apply for funding for both YRBS and
Profiles, education or health agencies in jurisdictions that are not applying
for Component 2 funding are permitted to apply for a reduced amount of funding
under Component 1 for a single survey (either YRBS or Profiles). Component 1
funding is intended only for the administration, dissemination, and use of the
YRBS and Profiles. Support for any other school-based surveillance activities
with these funds is prohibited.

#### Q3: My local education agency (LEA) is the lead partner on a LEA
consortium application. Should surveillance activities be representative of
the consortium or of each partner LEA?

A3: Surveillance activities should be representative of the consortium rather
than the individual LEA. That is, for School Health Profiles, samples will be
drawn to represent all secondary schools in the consortium, and for the Youth
Risk Behavior Survey, samples will be drawn to represent all high school
students in the consortium.

#### Q4: Are there any meetings early in the project period for which I should
save the dates on my calendar?

A4: Yes. All awardees funded for Component 1 who were not funded for Strategy
1 under PS13-1308 will be required to send the person designated as their
Youth Risk Behavior Survey (YRBS) coordinator to a training workshop in
Rockville, MD on August 28 and 29, 2018. Travel costs for this workshop will
be paid through CDC's technical assistance contractor.

#### Q5: Are grantees funded ONLY for Component 1 required to attend the
September 24-26, 2018 orientation?

A5: No. Component 1-only recipients are not required to attend the September
24-26, 2018 orientation.

#### Q6: Are grantees funded ONLY for Component 1 who are ONLY using funding
to support implementation of School Health Profiles (Profiles) required to
attend the YRBS training workshop on August 28-29, 2018?

A6: No. Recipients who are only funded to support implementation of Profiles
are not required to attend the YRBS training workshop on August 28-29, 2018.

#### Q7: Can you pay for staffing from a Component 1 budget?

A7: Yes.

#### Q8: Can Component 1 funding be used for sub-sampling for the Notice of
Funding Opportunity (NOFO) DP18-1801 from the National Center for Chronic
Disease Prevention and Health Promotion (NCCDPHP)?

A8: Yes. Component 1 funding can be used for any sub-sampling that can inform
the jurisdiction's programmatic efforts. Recipients will work with CDC post-
award on budget specifics related to this option.

#### Q9: What percentage of the budget must you allocate for Youth Risk
Behavior Survey (YRBS) and School Health Profiles (Profiles) surveys?

A9: The percentage of budget allocated for the YRBS and Profiles is up to the
funded recipient.

#### Q10: Can you travel out of state on Component 1 funds?

A10: No. Out-of-state travel is not allowed with Component 1 funds.

#### Q11: Are the Youth Risk Behavior Survey (YRBS) questions on page 11
required for state education agencies (SEA)?

A11: No. The questions are required for local education agencies (LEA) funded
under Component 2 to obtain and maintain funding for Component 2. Those
agencies must include those questions on their 2019, 2021, and 2023 YRBS
questionnaires.

#### Q12: If a state implements the Youth Risk Behavior Survey (YRBS) and
School Health Profiles (Profiles), will a local education agency (LEA) funded
under Component 2 also be required to implement YRBS and Profiles?

A12: Yes. If a LEA is funded for Component 2, that district must implement
both Profiles and YRBS even if that district's state is also implementing
Profiles and YRBS. CDC will work closely with states and districts when this
occurs to ensure that schools are surveyed only once and data are shared
appropriately.

#### Q13: Are surveillance activities for high school only?

A13: No. School Health Profiles (Profiles) must be administered to a
representative sample of schools serving students in any of grades 6-12 (e.g.,
middle schools, high schools, junior/senior high schools) in the recipient's
jurisdiction. For Youth Risk Behavior Survey (YRBS), recipients are required
to administer the survey to a representative sample of high school students in
the jurisdiction, but also have the option of administering the YRBS to a
representative sample of middle school students.

#### Q14: Does CDC plan to continue providing Youth Risk Behavior Survey
(YRBS) sample frame assistance, data cleaning, and data analysis for
jurisdictions who do not apply for PS18-1807 funding?

A14: No.

#### Q15: Can you confirm that the surveys administered under Component 1 of
the HIV School-Based Prevention will still be scanned, results compiled, and
weighted data provided by the CDC contractor?

A15: Yes. Youth Risk Behavior Survey (YRBS) and School Health Profiles
(Profiles) questionnaires will be scanned by the CDC contractor. Assuming the
recipient obtains the required response rate and provides the required
documentation as described in the Handbook for Conducting Youth Risk Behavior
Surveys and the Handbook for Conducting School Health Profiles, then the data
will be weighted by the contractor and a report of the results will be
compiled and provided to the recipient.

#### Q16: Page 11 of the Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) indicates there
are certain required questions that recipients must include in the Youth Risk
Behavior Survey (YRBS) questionnaire. Are recipients permitted to use only
these nine required YRBS questions, without addressing the other topics
covered by the full YRBS survey?

A16: No. All recipients are required to use two thirds of the questions on the
standard YRBS questionnaire that will be available by August. More information
about this can be found in the Handbook for Conducting Youth Risk Behavior
Surveys. In addition to the standard questions, local education agencies (LEA)
funded under Component 2 must also include the questions included on page 11
of the NOFO.

#### Q17: Are recipients permitted to add locally-produced questions to the
Youth Risk Behavior Survey (YRBS) questions?

A17: Yes. Recipients are permitted to add questions to their YRBS
questionnaire, but they must adhere to specific parameters as described in the
Handbook for Conducting Youth Risk Behavior Surveys.

#### Q18: Are we expected to administer the entire Youth Risk Behavior Survey
(YRBS) or only the questions listed under required activities on page 11 of
the Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO)?

A18: All recipients of Component 1 funding are required to use two thirds of
the questions on the standard YRBS questionnaire, which will be available by
August. More information about this can be found in the Handbook for
Conducting Youth Risk Behavior Surveys. In addition to the standard questions,
local education agencies (LEA) funded under Component 2 must also include the
questions noted on page 11 of the NOFO.

#### Q19: If our education or health agency has the capacity to conduct the
Youth Risk Behavior Survey (YRBS) online, is it permissible to propose to do
it in that manner for this funding opportunity?

A19: Beginning with the 2019 YRBS cycle, CDC will allow state education
agencies (SEA) and local education agencies (LEA) that have previously
conducted a YRBS the option of doing their survey online. As with School
Health Profiles (Profiles), online administration of an SEA/LEA's YRBS will
require CDC and Westat approval prior to survey administration. Recipients
will be required to meet certain technical specifications according to a
strict timeline before that approval is given.

Top of Page

### Component 2: School-based HIV/STD Prevention Specific

#### Q1: Why did you change your funding strategy for Component 2 (formerly
Strategy 2 in 1308) from a combination of state education agencies (SEA) and
local education agencies (LEA) to funding LEA only?

A1: School curricula, policies, and services are generally locally determined
under the organization of LEA. For this reason, CDC will implement the bulk of
its primary HIV/STD prevention programming for school-age youth through LEA.
SEA play an important role in creating support environments for LEA to
implement the goals of CDC funding. Rather than fund a small portion of SEA
directly, this funding announcement will make support available to all 50 SEA
indirectly through the training and capacity building award of Component 3E
"Addressing Policy and Practice in States." Through Component E, all 50 SEA
will have the opportunity to send a state team for in-person training and
receive ongoing technical assistance.

#### Q2: Are there any requirements to use evidence-based intervention (EBI)?

A2: There are no requirements to use evidence-based interventions (EBI).
However, they may be used to supplement an already existing Health/Sexual
Health Education program.

#### Q3: Do local education agencies (LEA) need to select at least 10,000
students in a subset of the middle/high schools in their district as
"priority" schools?

A3: Yes. Page 12 of the Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) states the
following:

"For the purposes of this NOFO, each recipient must select a minimum of 10
priority schools (high schools, or a combination of middle and high schools)
in which to implement all required activities before diffusing those
activities to as many middle and high schools in the district as possible."

Also on page 12 the NOFO further states the following:

"The total number of students reached through priority schools must be at
least 10,000."  
CDC will work with funded LEA to finalize priority school selection post-
award.

#### Q4: For local education agencies (LEA) applying as a consortium of
districts, does "District Level" on the chart equate to "Consortium Level"
(meaning all districts in consortium)?

A4: Yes. "District Level" on the chart equates to "Consortium Level" for
consortium applications.

#### Q5: Are there any requirements for the number of priority schools in each
district for a consortium application?

A5: Yes. Page 12 of the Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) states the
following:

"For the purposes of this NOFO, each recipient must select a minimum of 10
priority schools (high schools, or a combination of middle and high schools)
in which to implement all required activities before diffusing those
activities to as many middle and high schools in the district as possible."

This language applies to the consortium applications as well.

#### Q6: Can the number of students in priority schools (10,000) be
duplicated?

A6: No. The total number of students reached through priority schools must be
at least 10,000 non-duplicated students.

#### Q7: Are you required to reach 10,000 students each year or over the 5
years?

A7: The total number of students reached through priority schools must be at
least 10,000 per year.

#### Q8: Does the Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) require a minimum or
maximum number of priority schools?

A8: Yes. For the purposes of this NOFO, each recipient must select a minimum
of 10 priority schools (high schools, or a combination of middle and high
schools) in which to implement all required activities before diffusing those
activities to as many middle and high schools in the district as possible.
Epidemiologic and social determinants data should be used to select priority
schools in which youth are at high risk for HIV and other STDs. Applicants may
choose to include alternative schools, charter schools, magnet schools, and
other non-traditional schools in their priority school selections. CDC will
work with funded local education agencies (LEA) to finalize priority school
selection post-award.

#### Q9: Can the budget support for evaluation exceed 6%?

A9: Yes.

#### Q10: Can priority schools consist of middle and high schools?

A10: Yes. For the purposes of this Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO), each
recipient must select a minimum of 10 priority schools (high schools, or a
combination of middle and high schools) in which to implement all required
activities before diffusing those activities to as many middle and high
schools in the district as possible.

#### Q11: Is it okay to only have 10 middle and high schools in your district?

A11: Yes, if the total number of students reached through priority schools
will be at least 10,000. Local education agencies (LEA) with an enrollment of
less than 10,000 students may combine with other geographically contiguous
districts to create a consortium application. In doing so, the consortium must
designate a single LEA to submit the application and, if funded, administer
the program.

#### Q12: Are local education agencies (LEA) required to have a Memorandum of
Understanding/Agreement (MOU/A) with the State Education Agency (SEA) in their
jurisdiction for Component 1 or Component 2?

A12: No. The required MOU/A is between the LEA and corresponding public health
agency. See pages 23 and 44 of the NOFO for more detail.

#### Q13: Local education agencies (LEA) are expected to select "priority"
schools for PS18-1807. The Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) says that
priority schools are schools in which youth are at high risk for HIV infection
and other STD. What does "high risk" mean? Does that refer to a particular
threshold infection rate? Can you clarify what qualifies as high risk and how
that informs school selection for Component 2 work?

A13: Activities in priority schools are the required activities that are
initially implemented within a subset of schools in a district before
expanding to as many middle and high schools in the district as possible. For
the purposes of this NOFO, each recipient must select a minimum of 10 priority
schools (high schools, or a combination of middle and high schools) in which
to implement all required activities before diffusing those activities to as
many middle and high schools in the district as possible. Epidemiologic and
social determinants data should be used to select priority schools in which
youth are at high risk for HIV infection and other STD. Applicants may choose
to include alternative schools, charter schools, magnet schools, and other
non-traditional schools in their priority school selections. CDC will work
with funded LEA to finalize priority school selection post-award. The total
number of students reached through priority schools must be at least 10,000.
If an LEA does not have a student population of 10,000 students, more than one
LEA can collaborate to submit a joint application. An example of an activity
in priority schools is to provide professional development to teachers on
classroom management. Refer to pages 12 and 24 of the NOFO for similar
information.

#### Q14: Do you have to keep the same number of priority schools over the
whole 5 years?

A14: For evaluation purposes, priority schools should remain as consistent as
possible throughout the 5 year time frame.

For the purposes of this NOFO, each recipient must select a minimum of 10
priority schools (high schools, or a combination of middle and high schools)
in which to implement all required activities before diffusing those
activities to as many middle and high schools in the district as possible.
Epidemiologic and social determinants data should be used to select priority
schools in which youth are at high risk for HIV infection and other STD.
Applicants may choose to include alternative schools, charter schools, magnet
schools, and other non-traditional schools in their priority school
selections. CDC will work with funded LEA to finalize priority school
selection post-award.

#### Q15: Are program evaluation activities for both middle and high schools?

A15: Yes.

#### Q16: In the application it says, "each recipient must select a minimum of
10 priority schools in which to implement all required activities before
diffusing those activities to as many middle and high schools in the district
as possible." When we select our priority schools in the beginning of the
award, are they our only priority schools for the remainder of the cooperative
agreement? Or do we add more as we diffuse activities?

A16: Yes. The priority schools chosen at the beginning are the only priority
schools for the remainder of the cooperative agreement. CDC will work with
funded local education agencies (LEA) to revise or update their list of
proposed priority schools post-award.

For evaluation purposes, priority schools should remain as consistent as
possible throughout the 5-year time frame. Recipients will not add more
priority schools as they diffuse activities.

#### Q17: If we propose to reach 15,000 students from 20 priority schools in
the application, but plan to increase that number the following year to reach
25,000 students from 30 schools, will those 10 new schools become priority
schools?

A17: No. For evaluation purposes, priority schools should remain as consistent
as possible throughout the 5-year time frame.

For the purposes of scoring the application during the competitive process,
only the population proposed to be reached in year 1 will be considered.

#### Q18: Will we have to report data on all schools in which we implement
activities throughout the course of the cooperative agreement or just those
initial priority schools selected in the beginning?

A18: Your agency will provide evaluation data on your priority schools on a
semi-annual basis and Youth Risk Behavior Survey (YRBS) and School Health
Profiles (Profiles) data will be collected for all secondary schools in the
district.

#### Q19: How long must required activities be implemented in priority schools
before being diffused to all schools in the district?

A19: Required activities in all secondary schools are ready for diffusion to
all middle and high schools in the district after they have been refined and
successfully implemented in priority schools. Diffusion may happen over time
reaching as many middle and high schools in the district as possible over the
5-year award period. The decision to implement activities in additional
schools will be done in consultation with CDC and will be based on readiness
and potential for impact.

#### Q20: Will there be additional funds to take Component 2 Strategies
(Strategy 2A - Sexual Health Education (SHE); Strategy 2B - Sexual Health
Services (SHS); and Strategy 2C - Safe and Supportive Environments (SSE)) to
scale across the school district?

A20: Each year of the cooperative agreement, recipients will receive an
established amount of funds for the year. In the earlier years of the
cooperative agreement, these funds will primarily be used to work with the
identified priority schools in the district. In later years, recipients are
expected to take Strategies to scale to additional schools in the district
using the funds allocated in the cooperative agreement. These expansion
efforts will occur after recipient discussions with the assigned DASH program
consultant.

#### Q21: How does a funded local education agency (LEA) develop and approve a
list of instructional competencies to be demonstrated by individuals who teach
sexual health education?

A21: Funded LEA are expected to identify a list of instructional competencies,
or skills, to be demonstrated by individuals teaching sexual health education.
"Instructional competency" is defined on page 87 of the Notice of Funding
Opportunity (NOFO). Recipients should reference appropriate evidenced-based
and practice-informed approaches to effective instructional delivery in sexual
health education. CDC will work with funded LEA to revise or update their list
of instructional competencies post-award.

#### Q22: In Approach SHE 2A, bullet 5 (page 14) regarding Instructional
program development, revision, or selection-is a Local Education Agency (LEA)
expected to undergo a review for the SHE portion of comprehensive health
education?

A22: Yes. Funded LEA are expected to systematically evaluate the selected
sexual health education program or curriculum. CDC recommends using the
CDC/DASH Health Education Curriculum Analysis Tool (HECAT) to determine
appropriateness of SHE program for intended adolescent populations.

#### Q23: Does the expectation about setting up a curriculum review mentioned
on page 14 of the Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) apply to local
education agencies (LEA) that are already satisfied with their instructional
program choices?

A23: Yes. DASH will encourage recipients to review their existing sexual
health education curriculum with the CDC/DASH Health Education Curriculum
Analysis Tool (HECAT) to assess coverage of the recommended content at each
grade span. The LEA may also choose to use other national documents, such as
the National Health Education Standards and the National Sexuality Education
Standards, to assess the content in their current sexual health education
curriculum.

#### Q24: Can CDC research, identify, assess, and recommend additional
classroom-based sexual health education (SHE) instructional programs,
including those that are part of the required comprehensive health education
course? If not, are funded education agencies expected to assess the
instructional program using the CDC/DASH Health Education Curriculum Analysis
Tool (HECAT), the National Health Education Standards, or the National
Sexuality Education Standards?

A24: CDC cannot identify specific curricula/programs that are to be used by
funded partners. This is a local decision. However, we recommend that a team
of community members and district personnel utilize the HECAT to assess health
education and sexual health education curricula/programs that would best meet
the needs of the community and school district in alignment with the Strategy
2A Required Activities (pages 13-14).

#### Q25: Page 14 under Required Activities and page 92 under Appendix A
reads, "Develop, revise, or select a sexual health education instructional
program." In some states, sexual health education (SHE) may be one required
component of comprehensive health education. Does this Notice of Funding
Opportunity (NOFO) support school systems where SHE is not a stand-alone
curriculum, but is a part of the comprehensive, skills-based health education
course?

A25: Yes. DASH encourages school districts to nest their SHE curriculum within
a broader health education curriculum. DASH funding will focus on the SHE
component of the broader skills-based health education curriculum.

#### Q26: Can a funded local education agency (LEA) use the National Health
Education Standards, National Sexuality Education Standards, or the CDC/DASH
Health Education Curriculum Analysis Tool (HECAT) to inform our work?

A26: Yes.

#### Q27: Is it permissible for the local health department in the recipient's
jurisdiction to establish a School Health Advisory Council (SHAC) instead of
the local education agency (LEA)?

A27: Yes, provided that the education agency is engaged and the School Health
Advisory Council (SHAC) work is connected to the activities outlined in the
application to DASH.

#### Q28: Can the HIV Materials Review Panel also serve as the School Health
Advisory Council (SHAC)?  
Can the School Health Advisory Council (SHAC) serve as the HIV Materials
Review Panel?

A28: Yes. This is a common practice across the country. Committees/Councils
often serve multiple roles.

#### Q29: What are the expectations for actively integrating parents in sexual
health education (SHE) instructional programs? Can you confirm that these
expectations differ from past funding announcements and give examples of
effective initiatives?

A29: The expectations for integrating and engaging parents are different from
those in past funding announcements. The types of initiatives the applicant
agency implements need to be determined by the agency. A definition of parent
engagement in schools is included on page 88 of the Notice of Funding
Opportunity (NOFO) along with additional information provided on CDC's
Promoting Parent Engagement in Schools to Prevent HIV and other STDs among
Teenspdf icon resource.

#### Q30: What if an applicant is already using a scope and sequence? Does the
applicant still need to develop and approve another based on the required
activities for Strategy 2A?

A30: No. The Sexual Health Education (SHE) scope and sequence document should
be updated to reflect instructional priorities under Strategy 2A - SHE
activities. CDC will work with funded LEA to revise or update their SHE scope
and sequence document post-award.

#### Q31: Are applicants expected to choose one approach (2A, 2B, or 2C) or
should they use all three?

A31: Applicants for Component 2 are expected to address all three strategies
of Component 2. Refer to pages 12-15 of the Notice of Funding Opportunity
(NOFO) for a description of the required activities for Component 2. Page 12
states:

"The Component 2 required activities are listed by strategy: Strategy 2A -
Sexual Health Education (SHE); Strategy 2B - Sexual Health Services (SHS); and
Strategy 2C - Safe and Supportive Environments (SSE). Collectively, these
required activities are intended to strengthen staff capacity, increase
student access to programs and services, and engage parent and community
partners.

These three strategies were selected based on evidence of effectiveness and
evidence that they address known risk or protective factors. The Sexual Health
Education (SHE) strategy is intended to help adolescents acquire the essential
knowledge and critical skills needed to prevent HIV, STD, and teen pregnancy.
The Sexual Health Services (SHS) strategy is intended to increase adolescents'
access to key sexual health services including HIV and other STD testing. The
Safe and Supportive Environments (SSE) strategy is intended to increase
adolescents' connectedness to their school and increase parental monitoring
and communication."

#### Q32: Can our priority schools be ALL of our high schools? Or do we need a
comparison group?

A32: Page 12 of the Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) states the following:

"For the purposes of this NOFO, each recipient must select a minimum of 10
priority schools (high schools, or a combination of middle and high schools)
in which to implement all required activities before diffusing those
activities to as many middle and high schools in the district as possible.
Epidemiologic and social determinants data should be used to select priority
schools in which youth are at high risk for HIV infection and other STD.
Applicants may choose to include alternative schools, charter schools, magnet
schools, and other non-traditional schools in their priority school
selections. CDC will work with funded LEA to finalize priority school
selection post-award. The total number of students reached through priority
schools must be at least 10,000."

The NOFO does not mention a comparison group.

#### Q33: Concerning Component 2, can the local education agency (LEA) hire
one full-time employee (FTE) or three part-time employees (PTE) that equals
one FTE?

A33: Yes. Page 54 of the Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) states the
following:

"CDC requires applicants for Components 2 and 3 to allocate at least one full-
time employee (FTE) to be included in the applicant's itemized budget and
corresponding budget narrative. This 1.0 FTE position could be split among up
to three staff, by effort, or among the three strategy areas for Component 2."

Top of Page

### Component 3: Technical Assistance and Capacity Building Specific

#### Q1: Why does PS18-1807 include Component 3D (Training and Technical
Assistance for School-Based Substance Use Approaches) if funding is not
currently available for it?

A1: The purpose of 18-1807 is to "improve the health and well-being of our
nation's youth by working with education and health agencies, and other
organizations to reduce HIV, STD, teen pregnancy, and related risk behaviors
among middle and high school students." Substance use is one such related risk
behavior. All successful applications will be categorized as "Approved But
Unfunded." CDC's current guidelines allow for such applications to remain
active for up to two years. If funding does become available during that time
frame, CDC will award Component 3D as outlined in the PS18-1807 NOFO.

#### Q2: Are inventories for Component 3 expected to cover similar topics as
School Health Policies and Practices Study (SHPPS) and School Health Profiles
(Profiles), or is it expected to be more limited in scope?

A2: To fulfill the inventory requirement, Component 3 recipients will gather
program information annually from Component 2 LEA recipients.

#### Q3: Can you clarify what is meant by "ensuring subject matter experts
(SME) are accessible to project participants"?

A3: Recipients funded for Component 3A, 3B, 3C, and 3D are expected to have a
SME available to the Component 2 LEA funded recipients. The decision of how to
provide a SME is to be made by the prospective applicants.  
Page 15 of the Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) states:

"Components 3A, 3B, 3C, and 3D recipients are expected to work with all
Component 2 LEA recipients. However, this support will vary across LEA based
on those recipients' current capacity and need. Component 3 applicants should
include a tiered plan to build the capacity of up to 35 LEA funded for
Component 2 that includes technical assistance, specialized capacity building,
and intensive program implementation support. CDC will work with these
Component 3 recipients post-award to determine the degree to which the
Component 3 recipients will work with each of the Component 2 recipients, in
conjunction with the tiered approach."

#### Q4: Are you required to set aside 6% of the budget for the evaluation
activity?

A4: Yes. 6% is the minimum to set aside for evaluation.

#### Q5: Can the budget support for evaluation exceed 6%?

A5: Yes.

#### Q6: For Component 3E on page 21 the Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO)
has a required activity for training that states "Identifying gaps between
model policy development and program implementation." Who will complete this
activity?

A6: The recipient of Component 3E funding will convene multiple in-person
trainings for 50 state-level teams culminating in action plans that address
identified gaps between model policy development and program implementation
for the state-level teams in attendance.

#### Q7: Can you define the difference between technical assistance,
specialized capacity building, and intensive program implementation support?

A7:

_Technical Assistance:_ Targeted support provided to an individual or group of
individuals with the intent to increase knowledge and skills to strengthen an
organization's capacity to achieve PS18-1807 Notice of Funding Opportunity
(NOFO) goals. Support may be provided through professional development events,
technical assistance, the provision of guidance and resource materials, or
referrals to other agencies or organizations.

_Capacity Building:_ The process of improving an organization's ability to
achieve its mission. It includes increasing skills and knowledge; increasing
the ability to plan and implement programs, practices, and policies;
increasing the quality, quantity, or cost-effectiveness of programs,
practices, and policies; and increasing the sustainability of infrastructure
or systems that support programs, practices, and policies.

_Intensive program implementation support_ is not defined in the NOFO. The
applicant should propose in their application how they plan to implement
intensive program implementation support.

Top of Page

### Additional Questions

#### Q1: What is a Data Management Plan?

A1: A Data Management Plan (DMP) is a plan to preserve data collected (such as
surveillance or evaluation data) and make it available for public use. 1807
recipients will receive guidance on creating a DMP for all data collection
activities so that they can submit a DMP 6 months after award. For more
information about CDC's policy on the DMP, see
https://www.cdc.gov/grants/additionalrequirements/ar-25.html.

#### Q2: What is the difference between the Data Management Plan (DMP) and the
Evaluation Plan?

A2: The Data Management Plan (DMP) is a federal requirement to plan to
preserve and share with the public all data collected, including surveillance
and evaluation data. The Evaluation Plan refers only to program and
performance measurement and includes what data will be collected, how it will
be collected, who will collect it, and on what schedule. It does not apply to
surveillance data. The DMP and Evaluation Plan are separate documents, and
both will be required six months after the start of NOFO PS18-1807.

#### Q3: Except for the grantee orientation on September 24-26, 2018, I do not
see additional travel requirements. Should we plan for travel in addition to
the grantee orientation?

A3: Page 54 of the Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) addresses the travel
requirements of the initial application:

"Components 2 and 3 applicants should also budget for CDC-required and other
approved professional development events that require in-person attendance.

In addition, all recipients are required to attend a grantee orientation
September 24-26, 2018, at the CDC main campus in Atlanta. This travel should
be reflected in the itemized budget and corresponding budget narrative."

Information about budget is repeated on page 70:

"Components 2 and 3 applicants should also budget for CDC-required and other
approved professional development events that require in-person attendance.

In addition, all recipients are required to attend a grantee orientation
September 24-26, 2018, at the CDC main campus in Atlanta. This travel should
be reflected in the itemized budget and corresponding budget narrative. See
"Budget Narrative" on pages 53-54 for further information on budgets."

#### Q4: Will an Institutional Review Board (IRB) be needed for PS18-1807?

A4: Regarding Component 1, CDC does not require IRB review for state,
territorial, tribal, or district surveillance. All recipients, however, must
follow any requirements that their jurisdiction has for IRB review.

Regarding Component 2 and 3, to date DASH is not aware of required evaluation
activities needing IRB approval. Program evaluation has typically been
exempted because it is not considered to be research.

#### Q5: The Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) indicates short-term
outcomes and intermediate outcomes are both to be achieved by the end of the
5-year grant period. Can you confirm that they share the same timeline but are
defined as short and intermediate?

A5: Yes. We expect short and intermediate outcomes will be achieved by the end
of the 5-year grant period. Short-term outcomes are likely to be achieved
earlier in the 5-year period than intermediate-term outcomes.

#### Q6: Can you highlight areas of where and/or how PS18-1807 builds on the
work of PS13-1308?

A6: Under PS18-1807, DASH continues to support education agencies to implement
sexual health education, sexual health services and safe and supportive
environments. We continue to see the value of identifying priority schools for
piloting new approaches and establishing best practices. However, unlike
PS13-1308, we also expect that over the course of the 5-year period those
activities will be disseminated and implemented district-wide across the
funded local education agencies (LEA). In an effort to support all 50 state
education agencies, we will fund a partner with national reach to deliver
intensive training and technical assistance to state education agencies (SEA).

#### Q7: How many conferences/professional development events should we plan
for Component 2 (in addition to the orientation in September)?  
How many conferences/professional development events should we plan for
Component 3 (in addition to the orientation in September)?

A7: All recipients are required to attend a recipient orientation September
24-26, 2018, at the CDC main campus in Atlanta, Georgia. This travel should be
reflected in the itemized budget and corresponding budget narrative. Aside
from the recipient orientation, the number of conferences/professional
development events are not yet determined. If your organization is funded, you
will have some budget flexibility post award to attend these events.

Please send any additional questions to John Canfield at qzc6@cdc.gov.

Top of Page

Page last reviewed: April 27, 2018

Content source: Division of Adolescent and School Health, National Center for
HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

home DASH Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About DASHplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * At A Glance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Why Schools?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Health: What Works In Schoolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Safe and Supportive School Environments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youth HIV, STD & Pregnancy Prevention Program Impact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Calendar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Contact DASH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Adolescent and School Health Policyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * DASH Partner Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policy Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Policy Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State School-Based Health Education Law Summary Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Data By Topicplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nutrition, Physical Activity, & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Profilesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Map & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Requesting Data Files
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SHPPSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * YRBSSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Maps & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Trends Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * NYPANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Disparitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Addressing Health and Educational Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Considerations for LGBTQ Youthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Protective Factors for LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Health Disparities Among LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Terminology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Survey of Todayâs Adolescent Relationships and Transitions (START)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funded Areasplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Notice of Funding Opportunities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Local Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded State Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Territorial Agency and Tribal Nation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded NGOs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Protective Factorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parent Engagement in Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Positive Parenting Practices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Services for Teensplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Condom Availability Programs (CAPs)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: In Brief
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: Things to Consider
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * High-Risk Substance Use Among Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sexual Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Evaluationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Evaluations of Innovative Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Additional Evaluation Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health & Academicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Anti-Bullying Policies and Enumeration: An Infobrief for Local Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How the WSCC Model Informs HIV, STD, and Pregnancy Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Whole School, Whole Community, Whole Child (WSCC) Model
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * GYT: Get Yourself Tested for High Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Curriculum Analysis Tool (HECAT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HECAT FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Teacher Training Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Publications, Registries, and Other Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Registries of Programs Effective in Reducing Youth Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * NYHAAD Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * HIV Information and Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Portrait Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Buttons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Palm Cards & Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specific Audiencesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Planning for Program Success
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Grants Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Program Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reporting Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parents

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

