

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Adolescent and School Health

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# What Works: Sexual Health Education

Minus

Related Pages

![Beautiful African American female teenage college student in
classroom](/healthyyouth/whatworks/images/GettyImages-492699342.jpg)

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's Division of Adolescent and
School Health (DASH) has established an evidence-based approach schools can
implement to help prevent HIV, STDs, and unintended pregnancy among
adolescents. It includes quality health education, systems that connect
students to health services, and safer and more supportive school
environments. This info brief focuses on delivering quality **sexual health
education** --a systematic, effective way schools can provide adolescents the
essential knowledge and critical skills needed to decrease sexual risk
behaviors.

pdf iconPrint Version

What is sexual health education?

Quality sexual health education (SHE) provides students with the knowledge and
skills to help them be healthy and avoid human immunodeficiency virus (HIV),
sexually transmitted diseases (STD), and unintended pregnancy. A SHE
curriculum includes medically accurate, developmentally appropriate, and
culturally relevant content and skills that target key behavioral outcomes and
promote healthy sexual development. The curriculum is age-appropriate and
planned across grade levels to provide information about health risk behaviors
and experiences. Sexual health education should be consistent with scientific
research and best practices; reflect the diversity of student experiences and
identities; and align with school, family, and community priorities.

Across states, **fewer than half** of high schools (43%) and **less than one-
fifth** of middle schools (18%) teach key CDC topics for sexual health
education.

_Source: 2018 School Health Profiles_

Quality sexual health education programs share many characteristics. These
programs:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Are taught by well-qualified and highly-trained teachers and school staff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Use strategies that are relevant and engaging for all students
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Address the health needs of all students, including the needs of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Connect students to sexual health and other health services at school or in the community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Engage parents, families, and community partners in school programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Foster positive relationships between adolescents andimportant adults.

How can schools deliver sexual health education?

A school health education program that includes a quality SHE curriculum
targets the development of critical knowledge and skills needed to promote
healthy behaviors and avoid risks. It is important that SHE explicitly
incorporate skill development. Giving students time to practice, assess, and
reflect on skills taught in the curriculum helps move them toward
independence, critical thinking, and problem solving to avoid HIV, STDs, and
unintended pregnancy.

Broward County Public Schools in Florida has used CDC's Health Education
Curriculum Analysis Tool (HECAT) to improve their health education curricula.  
  

> We compared our current curriculum with HECAT and made changes and
> modifications and enhancements based on what we analyzed.
>
> Sebrina James, Broward County's Instructional Facilitator and Sexual Health
> Coordinator

Quality sexual health education programs teach students how to:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Analyze family, peer, and media influences that impact health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Access valid and reliable health information, products, and services (e.g., HIV/STD testing)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Communicate with family, peers, and teachers about issues that affect health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Make informed and thoughtful decisions about their health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Take responsibility for themselves and others to improve their health.

What are the benefits of delivering sexual health education to students?

Promoting and implementing well-designed SHE programs positively impacts
student health in a variety of ways. Students who participate in these
programs are more likely to:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Delay initiation of sexual intercourse
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Have fewer sex partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Have fewer experiences of unprotected sex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Increase their use of protection, specifically condoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Improve their academic performance.

In addition to providing knowledge and skills to address sexual behavior,
quality SHE programs can be tailored to include information on high-risk
substance use*, suicide prevention, and how to keep students from committing
or being victims of violence--behaviors and experiences that place youth at
risk for poor health and academic outcomes.

*High-risk substance use is any use by adolescents of substances with a high risk of adverse outcomes (i.e., injury, criminal justice involvement, school dropout, loss of life). This includes misuse of prescription drugs, use of illicit drugs (i.e., cocaine, heroin, methamphetamines, inhalants, hallucinogens, or ecstasy), and use of injection drugs (i.e., drugs that have a high risk of infection of blood-borne diseases such as HIV and hepatitis).

What does delivering sexual health education look like in action?

To successfully put quality SHE into practice, schools need supportive
policies, appropriate content, trained staff, and engaged parents and
communities. Schools can put these four elements in place to support SHE.

1\. Implement policies that foster supportive environments for SHE.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Identify existing state, district, and school policies on health education and SHE for all students.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Establish a skills-based health education course requirement--which includes SHE content--for all middle and high school students.

2\. Use health content that is medically accurate, developmentally
appropriate, culturally inclusive, and grounded in science.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Develop a SHE scope and sequence document† that identifies behavioral and learning outcomes for all middle and high school students.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Develop or select a SHE curriculum--consistent with the approved scope and sequence--that includes instructional lessons, student activities, resources, and assessment strategies. CDC's Health Education Curriculum Analysis Tool (HECAT) is a great resource to develop, select, and revise curricula.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Promote the use of teaching tools and resources--for example, pacing guides or specific lesson plans--to continuously improve SHE content and delivery.

†A scope and sequence document outlines the key health topics and concepts to
be learned across grade levels (scope), and the logical progression of health
knowledge, skills, and behaviors to be addressed at each grade level
(sequence)--from pre-kindergarten through 12th grade 7.

3\. Equip staff with the knowledge and skills needed to deliver SHE.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Seek feedback from teachers, staff, students, and administrators within the school about what critical knowledge and skills are needed to effectively deliver SHE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Identify a set of instructional competencies--the essential knowledge and teaching skills--that those delivering SHE should know and be able to demonstrate during instruction.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Use the identified instructional competencies to design, implement, and evaluate teacher and staff professional development and training. These trainings can improve teachers' knowledge and comfort with the subject matter and use of effective teaching skills needed for SHE.

4\. Engage parents and community partners.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Create School Health Advisory Councils (SHACs), or similar committees, that regularly provide district-level guidance on the school health program for students and staff. Within SHE, a SHAC can make valuable recommendations to strengthen curriculum or professional development and training  opportunities for staff.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Use strategies to actively engage families and communities in school health programs, explicitly gaining their feedback on SHE curricula through participation on the SHACs.

Open All Close All

Keys To Success

![48x48_she_success](/healthyyouth/whatworks/images/48x48_she_success.png)

Include enough time during professional development and training for teachers
to practice and reflect on what they learned (essential knowledge and skills)
to support their sexual health education instruction.

Keys To Success

![48x48_she_success](/healthyyouth/whatworks/images/48x48_she_success.png)

By law, if your school district or school is receiving federal HIV prevention
funding, you will need an HIV Materials Review Panel (HIV MRP) to review all
HIV-related educational and informational materials. This review panel can
include members from your School Health Advisory Councils, as shared expertise
can strengthen material review and decision making.

For More Information

Learn more about delivering quality sexual health education in the Program
Guidance.

Check out CDC's tools and resources below to develop, select, or revise SHE
curricula.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Health Education Curriculum Analysis Tool (HECAT).** This tool helps school and community leaders conduct clear, complete, and consistent analyses of health education curricula across a wide variety of topics (e.g., nutrition, tobacco, mental/emotional health).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Health Education Curriculum Analysis Tool (HECAT), Module 6: Sexual Health pdf icon[PDF - 70 pages].** This module within CDC's HECAT includes the knowledge, skills, and health behavior outcomes specifically aligned to sexual health education. School and community leaders can use this module to develop, select, or revise SHE curricula and instruction.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Developing a Scope and Sequence for Sexual Health Education pdf icon[PDF - 17 pages].** This resource provides an 11-step process to help schools outline the key sexual health topics and concepts (scope), and the logical progression of essential health knowledge, skills, and behaviors to be addressed at each grade level (sequence) from pre-kindergarten through the 12th grade. A developmental scope and sequence is essential to developing, selecting, or revising SHE curricula.

References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. CDC. PS18-1807 Program Guidance: Guidance for School-Based HIV/STD Prevention (Component 2) Recipients of PS18-1807 pdf icon[PDF - 120 pages]. Atlanta, GA: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; 2019.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2. National Health Education Standards. CDC Division of Adolescent and School Health website. Accessed December 20, 2019.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3. Chin HB, Sipe TA, Elder R. The effectiveness of group-based comprehensive risk-reduction and abstinence education interventions to prevent or reduce the risk of adolescent pregnancy, human immunodeficiency virus, and sexually transmitted infections: Two systematic reviews for the guide to community preventive services. Am J Prev Med 2012;42(3):272-94.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4. Mavedzenge SN, Luecke E, Ross DA. Effective approaches for programming to reduce adolescent vulnerability to HIV infection, HIV risk, and HIV-related morbidity and mortality: A systematic review of systematic reviews. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr 2014;66:S154-69.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5. Basch CE. Healthier students are better learners: A missing link in school reforms to close the achievement gap. J Sch Health 2011;81(10):593-8.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6. CDC. Health-related behaviors and academic achievement among high school students--United States, 2015. MMWR 2017;66(35):921-927.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7. CDC. Developing a Scope and Sequence for Sexual Health Education [PDF - 17 pages]. Atlanta, GA: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; 2016. .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8. CDC. Program guidance on the review of HIV-related educational and informational materials for CDC assistance programs pdf icon[PDF - 4 pages] _._ Atlanta, GA: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; 2016.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9. CDC. Health Education Curriculum Analysis Tool (HECAT) _._ Atlanta, GA: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; 2012.

Page last reviewed: February 3, 2020

Content source: Division of Adolescent and School Health, National Center for
HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

home DASH Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About DASHplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * At A Glance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Why Schools?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Health: What Works In Schoolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Safe and Supportive School Environments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youth HIV, STD & Pregnancy Prevention Program Impact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Calendar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Contact DASH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Adolescent and School Health Policyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * DASH Partner Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policy Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Policy Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State School-Based Health Education Law Summary Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Data By Topicplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nutrition, Physical Activity, & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Profilesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Map & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Requesting Data Files
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SHPPSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * YRBSSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Maps & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Trends Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * NYPANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Disparitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Addressing Health and Educational Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Considerations for LGBTQ Youthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Protective Factors for LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Health Disparities Among LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Terminology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Survey of Todayâs Adolescent Relationships and Transitions (START)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funded Areasplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Notice of Funding Opportunities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Local Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded State Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Territorial Agency and Tribal Nation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded NGOs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Protective Factorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parent Engagement in Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Positive Parenting Practices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Services for Teensplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Condom Availability Programs (CAPs)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: In Brief
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: Things to Consider
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * High-Risk Substance Use Among Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sexual Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Evaluationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Evaluations of Innovative Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Additional Evaluation Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health & Academicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Anti-Bullying Policies and Enumeration: An Infobrief for Local Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How the WSCC Model Informs HIV, STD, and Pregnancy Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Whole School, Whole Community, Whole Child (WSCC) Model
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * GYT: Get Yourself Tested for High Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Curriculum Analysis Tool (HECAT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HECAT FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Teacher Training Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Publications, Registries, and Other Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Registries of Programs Effective in Reducing Youth Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * NYHAAD Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * HIV Information and Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Portrait Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Buttons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Palm Cards & Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specific Audiencesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Planning for Program Success
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Grants Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Program Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reporting Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parents

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

