

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Adolescent and School Health

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# What Works: Safe and Supportive School Environments

Minus

Related Pages

![Female counselor advises people during support group
meeting](/healthyyouth/whatworks/images/GettyImages-1026754434-medium.jpg)

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's Division of Adolescent and
School Health (DASH) has established an evidence-based approach schools can
implement to help prevent HIV, STDs, and unintended pregnancy among
adolescents. It includes quality health education, systems that connect
students to health services, and safer and more supportive school
environments. This info brief focuses on how schools can promote **safe and
supportive environments** by improving students' connections to schools and
increasing the support they receive from parents.

pdf iconPrint Version

What are safe and supportive school environments?

Creating safe and supportive environments (SSE) emphasizes aspects of the
school environment that encourage students to be more engaged in their school
life and feel connected to important adults at school and at home. Connecting
students to their schools and families is an important protective factor that
can reduce students' risk for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), sexually
transmitted diseases (STDs), and unintended pregnancy. Protective factors such
as feeling connected, help reduce high-risk substance use* and mental health
issues, and help keep students from committing or being victims of violence.
These are behaviors and experiences that are associated with sexual risk and
poor academic outcomes.

School environments that are safe and supportive are successful at connecting
adolescents to a network of caring peers and adults, including parents, other
primary caregivers, and teachers. Promoting SSE can be particularly helpful
for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning (LGBTQ) youth, who
are more likely to be bullied at school and may lack family support at home.

Strengthening school and family environments can have substantial and long-
term impacts for students. These environments create an important foundation
for the other strategies in DASH's approach--sexual health education and
sexual health services--to be more effective.

*High-risk substance use is any use by adolescents of substances with a high risk of adverse outcomes (i.e., injury, criminal justice involvement, school dropout, loss of life). This includes misuse of prescription drugs, use of illicit drugs (i.e., cocaine, heroin, methamphetamines, inhalants, hallucinogens, or ecstasy), and use of injection drugs (i.e., drugs that have a high risk of infection of blood-borne diseases such as HIV and hepatitis).

How does promoting safe and supportive school environments work?

Keys To Success

![48x48_sse_success](/healthyyouth/whatworks/images/48x48_sse_success.png)

Reinforcing positive behavior through praise and establishing rules, routines,
and expectations are classroom management techniques that promote higher
levels of school connectedness.

Schools, families, and communities should work together to build a safe
environment for youth at school and at home. Activities to improve school
environments should aim to promote three protective factors:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. **School** **connectedness**, which is the belief held by students that adults and peers in the school care about their learning and about them as individuals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2. **Parental monitoring**,which refers to parental knowledge of adolescents' companions, whereabouts, and activities, as well as enforcement of rules, particularly about friends and dating
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3. Parent-adolescent communication, both generally and specifically about sex.

What are the benefits to promoting safe and supportive school environments?

Studies show that protective factors like providing SSE can reduce health risk
behaviors related to HIV and STDs in adolescents, such as, encouraging condom
use and delaying sexual initiation, as well as lowering the likelihood of
substance use, violence, suicidal thoughts or attempts, and pregnancy.
Adolescent connections to family and school during middle school and high
school are also related to numerous positive outcomes in adulthood, including:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Fewer sexual partners and STD diagnoses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Reduced emotional distress and suicidal ideation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Lower likelihood of being a victim of or committing violence
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Less prescription drug use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Higher likelihood of attending and graduating from college.

What does promoting safe and supportive school environments look like in
action?

Schools can promote safe and supportive environments by:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Providing professional development for teachers, including those who teach sexual health education, on classroom management techniques
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Providing professional development for all school staff on policies and practices that support all youth, including LGBTQ youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Implementing school-based positive youth development programs, including mentorship or service learning programs, or connecting students to these types of programs in their community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Establishing and enhancing student-led clubs that support LGBTQ youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sharing information and resources with parents or other primary caregivers about positive parenting practices, including how to talk with adolescents, specially about sex.

Keys To Success

![48x48_sse_success](/healthyyouth/whatworks/images/48x48_sse_success.png)

When communicating with parents, find the best method (e.g., emails, letters,
online portals) that suits the community. Find out whether materials need to
be translated into other languages.

Creating safe and supportive environments is particularly important for LGBTQ
students. There are more schools across states with a gay-straight alliance
(GSA)--up from **23% in 2008** to **40% in 2018**.

_Source: 2018 School Health Profiles_

For More Information

Learn more about promoting safe and supportive school environments in the
Program Guidance.

Check out CDC tools and resources for promoting protective factors.

References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. CDC. PS18-1807 Program Guidance: Guidance for school-based HIV/STD prevention (component 2) recipients of PS18-1807. Atlanta, GA: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; 2019.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2. DiClemente RJ, Salazar LF, Crosby RA. Prevention and control of sexually transmitted infections among adolescents: the importance of a socio-ecological perspective-a commentary. Pub Health 2005;119(9):825-36.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3. Resnick MD, Bearman PS, Blum RW, Bauman KE, Harris KM, Jones J. Protecting adolescents from harm. Findings from the National Longitudinal Study on Adolescent Health. JAMA 1997;278(10):823-32.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4. Sexual identity, sex of sexual contacts, and health-related behaviors among students in grades 9-12 - United States and selected sites, 2015. MMWR Surveill Summ 2016;65(9):1-202.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5. Reisner SL, Greytak EA, Parsons JT. Gender minority social stress in adolescence: disparities in adolescent bullying and substance use by gender identity. J Sex Res 2015;52(3):243-56.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6. Ryan C, Huebner D, Diaz RM. Family rejection as a predictor of negative health outcomes in white and Latino lesbian, gay, and bisexual young adults. Pediatrics 2009;123(1):346-52.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7. Frieden TR. A framework for public health action: the health impact pyramid. Am J Pub Health 2010;100(4):590-5.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8. Markham CM, Lormand D, Gloppen KM, et al. Connectedness as a predictor of sexual and reproductive health outcomes for youth. J Adolesc Health 2010;46(3 Suppl):S23-41.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9. Dittus PJ, Michael SL, Becasen JS, Gloppen KM, McCarthy K, Guilamo-Ramos V. Parental monitoring and its associations with adolescent sexual risk behavior: A meta-analysis. Pediatrics 2015;136(6):e1587-99.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10. Ethier KA, Harper CR, Hoo E. The longitudinal impact of perceptions of parental monitoring on adolescent initiation of sexual activity. J Adolesc Health 2016;59(5):570-6.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11. Hawkins JD, Kosterman R, Catalano RF. Effects of social development intervention in childhood 15 years later. Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med 2008;162(12):1133-41.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12. Steiner RJ, Sheremenko G, Lesesne C. Adolescent connectedness and adult health outcomes. Pediatrics 2019;144(1):e20183766.

Page last reviewed: February 3, 2020

Content source: Division of Adolescent and School Health, National Center for
HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

home DASH Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About DASHplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * At A Glance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Why Schools?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Health: What Works In Schoolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Safe and Supportive School Environments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youth HIV, STD & Pregnancy Prevention Program Impact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Calendar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Contact DASH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Adolescent and School Health Policyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * DASH Partner Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policy Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Policy Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State School-Based Health Education Law Summary Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Data By Topicplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nutrition, Physical Activity, & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Profilesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Map & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Requesting Data Files
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SHPPSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * YRBSSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Maps & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Trends Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * NYPANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Disparitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Addressing Health and Educational Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Considerations for LGBTQ Youthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Protective Factors for LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Health Disparities Among LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Terminology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Survey of Todayâs Adolescent Relationships and Transitions (START)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funded Areasplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Notice of Funding Opportunities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Local Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded State Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Territorial Agency and Tribal Nation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded NGOs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Protective Factorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parent Engagement in Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Positive Parenting Practices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Services for Teensplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Condom Availability Programs (CAPs)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: In Brief
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: Things to Consider
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * High-Risk Substance Use Among Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sexual Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Evaluationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Evaluations of Innovative Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Additional Evaluation Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health & Academicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Anti-Bullying Policies and Enumeration: An Infobrief for Local Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How the WSCC Model Informs HIV, STD, and Pregnancy Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Whole School, Whole Community, Whole Child (WSCC) Model
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * GYT: Get Yourself Tested for High Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Curriculum Analysis Tool (HECAT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HECAT FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Teacher Training Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Publications, Registries, and Other Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Registries of Programs Effective in Reducing Youth Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * NYHAAD Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * HIV Information and Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Portrait Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Buttons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Palm Cards & Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specific Audiencesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Planning for Program Success
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Grants Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Program Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reporting Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parents

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

