Link: https://medlineplus.gov/falls.html    
                                Description: We all fall down sometimes. Most of the time falls are not serious. But some falls can be dangerous. Learn  how to prevent falls.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Falls

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/falls.html

#  Falls

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Diagnosis and Tests
  * Prevention and Risk Factors

### Learn More

  * Related Issues

### See, Play and Learn

  * No links available

### Research

  * Statistics and Research
  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Children
  * Older Adults
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Falls can be dangerous at any age. Babies and young children can get hurt
falling off furniture or down the stairs. Older children may fall off
playground equipment. For older adults, falls can be especially serious. They
are at higher risk of falling. They are also more likely to fracture (break) a
bone when they fall, especially if they have osteoporosis. A broken bone,
especially when it is in a hip, may even lead to disability and a loss of
independence for older adults.

Some common causes of falls include

  * Balance problems
  * Some medicines, which can make you feel dizzy, confused, or slow
  * Vision problems
  * Alcohol, which can affect your balance and reflexes
  * Muscle weakness, especially in your legs, which can make it harder for you to get up from a chair or keep your balance when walking on an uneven surface.
  * Certain illnesses, such as low blood pressure, diabetes, and neuropathy
  * Slow reflexes, which make it hard to keep your balance or move out of the way of a hazard
  * Tripping or slipping due to loss of footing or traction

At any age, people can make changes to lower their risk of falling. It
important to take care of your health, including getting regular eye exams.
Regular exercise may lower your risk of falls by strengthening your muscles,
improving your balance, and keeping your bones strong. And you can look for
ways to make your house safer. For example, you can get rid of tripping
hazards and make sure that you have rails on the stairs and in the bath. To
reduce the chances of breaking a bone if you do fall, make sure that you get
enough calcium and vitamin D.

NIH: National Institute on Aging

## Start Here

  * Falls and Fractures ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Balance Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Fall Risk Assessment ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

  * Fall Prevention: Simple Tips to Prevent Falls (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * How to Prevent Falls and Improve Your Balance ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging)
  * Preventing Falls and Related Fractures ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases)
  * Preventing Falls: Tips to Keep You on Your Feet ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

  * Keeping Your Balance (National Osteoporosis Foundation)

## Statistics and Research

  * Falls Among Older Adults: An Overview (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * FastStats: Accidents or Unintentional Injuries (National Center for Health Statistics)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Accidental Falls ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Interventions aimed at loneliness and fall prevention reduce frailty in elderly...
  * Article: Prevention of Falls in Community-Dwelling Older Adults.
  * Article: Geriatric Rehabilitation: Gait in the Elderly, Fall Prevention and Parkinson Disease.
  * Falls -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

  * National Institute on Aging ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Children

  * First Aid: Falls (Nemours Foundation)

## Older Adults

  * Balance Problems (American Geriatrics Society) \- PDF
  * Check for Safety: A Home Fall Prevention Checklist for Older Adults (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF
  * Falls Prevention: Unique to Older Adults (AGS Foundation for Health in Aging)

## Patient Handouts

  * After a fall in the hospital (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Bathroom safety - adults (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Exercises to help prevent falls (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Preventing falls (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Falls](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Falls.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * After a fall in the hospital
  * Bathroom safety - adults
  * Exercises to help prevent falls
  * Preventing falls
  * Preventing falls - what to ask your doctor

## Related Health Topics

  * Balance Problems
  * Wounds and Injuries

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Falls is the National Institute
on Aging

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Falls_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 28 February 2020 Topic last reviewed: 11 April 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

