

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Adolescent and School Health

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Protective Factors for LGBTQ Youth: Information for Health and Education
Professionals

Minus

Related Pages

![Group Of High School Students Standing In Corridor
](/healthyyouth/protective/images/arcus1.jpg)

Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer/questioning (LGBTQ) youth are
more likely to experience poor health than their heterosexual (straight) or
cisgender peers.1-4  Supporting the health of LGBTQ youth has usually involved
trying to understand and reduce factors that increase their risk. Much less
attention has been paid to protective factors--the characteristics,
conditions, and behaviors that directly improve positive health outcomes or
reduce the effects of stressful life events and other risk factors.

Funding from the Arcus Foundation to the CDC Foundation supported the Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention's (CDC) Division of Adolescent and School
Health (DASH) to review the published literature on protective factors for
LGBTQ youth to identify gaps and opportunities for research and intervention.
DASH focused on factors that promote sexual health for LGBTQ (i.e., sexual
minority) youth. For transgender youth, we considered a broader set of factors
that promote mental health and academic success in addition to sexual health.
This page summarizes key findings that can strengthen programs and research
that support LGBTQ youth.

### question square iconWhat research has been done?

Very little research was found on sexual health-related protective factors for
LGBTQ youth age 15-24 years. A search for articles about individual-level
factors (things like knowledge, attitudes and skills) that promote positive
sexual health outcomes for LGBTQ youth identified 20 articles reporting on 12
studies.5 A second search for articles about relationship-level protective
factors (things like how people communicate with partners and parents) for the
sexual health of LGBTQ youth identified 42 articles reporting on 32 studies.6
Most of this research on LGBTQ youth looks at young gay and bisexual men and
does not include young lesbian, bisexual, and other women who have sex with
women.5,6 Only 21 articles, reporting on the results of 19 studies, addressed
protective factors that support sexual and mental health and positive
education outcomes for transgender and other gender diverse youth.7

The published articles looked at a variety of different factors; however, many
of these factors only appeared in one or two studies. Some factors that have
been found to be protective for heterosexual youth were not studied at all.
While most studies of individual-level factors focused on beliefs and
attitudes; only a few considered skills and competencies.

### alert iconOpportunities for Researchers

To guide programs, we need more research on protective factors for LGBTQ
youth. Based on the gaps identified in the DASH reviews, the following is
needed:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * More research on protective factors for young lesbian, bisexual, and other women who have sex with women
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Examination of differences between young bisexual men and women and their gay and lesbian peers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Designed and implemented longitudinal studies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Consistent measurement of potential protective factors affecting LGBTQ youth health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Examination of LGBTQ youth's skills and competencies related to sexual health promotion
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Examination of LGBTQ youth's relationships with medical providers and other trusted adults

### hand holding heart iconWhat factors are protective?

Given the limits of existing research, it is hard to say what factors promote
sexual health among LGBTQ youth and broader positive outcomes among gender
minority youth. However, some factors had protective effects in multiple
studies.

For gay and bisexual young men, these include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Positive attitudes about condoms** , such as thinking that condoms are pleasurable or important for healthy relationships.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Increased peer group acceptance of safer sex** , meaning that friends support condom use and other behaviors that reduce risk.

For transgender youth, these include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Acceptance and support from parents and peers** , particularly when it comes to sexual orientation and gender identity.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Gay-straight alliances** , which are student-led clubs that provide a safe place for students to support each other around issues related to sexual orientation and gender identity.

### hands helping solid iconWhat can health and education professionals do?

![Teenage friends spending time together
](/healthyyouth/protective/images/arcus3.jpg)

Health and education professionals engaged in practice or research should pay
more attention to protective factors for LGBTQ youth. In addition to reducing
risk, developing the assets of LGBTQ youth gives them resources to
successfully navigate challenges. The articles included in the reviews and the
broader literature suggest promising practices for doing so. Health and
education professionals working to support programs in community and school
settings can promote:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Positive youth development.** Positive youth development (PYD) involves strengthening protective factors, including skills, competencies and supportive relationships. PYD programs have improved sexual health8 and should be open and welcoming to LGBTQ youth. Resources on PYD are available via youth.govexternal icon.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Inclusive sexual health education.** Sex education that is relevant to LGBTQ youth can increase their ability to use condoms and talk with their partner about safer sex.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Gay-straight alliances.** Gay-straight alliances (GSAs) have been found to help LGBTQ youth as well as heterosexual, cisgender youth.10,11 The Genders Sexualities Alliance Networkexternal icon has developed tools for creating and supporting GSAs.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Parent engagement.** Family acceptance has been linked to positive health outcomes for sexual and gender minority youth.12,13 The Family Acceptance Projectexternal icon offers resources to strengthen family support of LGBTQ youth.

References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. Johns, M. M., Lowry, R., Andrzejewski, J., Barrios, L., C., Demissie, Z., McManus, T., Rasberry, C. N., Robin, L., Underwood, J. M. (2019). Transgender identity and experiences of violence victimization, substance use, suicide risk, and sexual risk behaviors among high school students--19 states and large urban school districts, 2017pdf icon. _MMWR, 68_ (3), 67-71.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. CDC. Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance--United States, 2017. _MMWR_  2018;67(No. SS-8).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2. Zaza S, Kann L, Barrios LC. Lesbian, Gay, and Bisexual Adolescents: Population Estimate and Prevalence of Health Behaviors. _JAMA_ 2016.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3. Reisner SL, Greytak EA, Parsons JT, Ybarra ML. Gender minority social stress in adolescence: Disparities in adolescent bullying and substance use by gender identity. _J Sex Res._ 2015;52(3):243-256.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4. Armstrong HL, Steiner RJ, Jayne PE, Beltran O. Individual-level protective factors for sexual health outcomes among sexual minority youth: a systematic review of the literature. _Sex Health_ 2016.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5. Johns MM, Liddon N, Jayne PE, Beltran O, Steiner RJ, Morris E. Systematic mapping of relationship-level protective factors and sexual health outcomes among sexual minority youth: The role of peers, parents, and partners, and providers. LGBT Health. 2018;5(1). Available at https://doi.org/10.1089/lgbt.2017.0053external icon.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6. Johns MM, Beltran O, Armstrong H, Jayne P, Barrios L. Protective factors among transgender and gender variant youth: A systematic review by socioecological level. J Primary Prev. 2018. 39(3):263-301. Available at https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2Fs10935-018-0508-9external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7. Gavin LE, Catalano RF, David-Ferdon C, Gloppen KM, Markham CM. A review of positive youth development programs that promote adolescent sexual and reproductive health. _J Adolesc Health_ 2010; **46** (3 Suppl): S75-91.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8. Mustanski B, Greene GJ, Ryan D, Whitton SW. Feasibility, Acceptability, and Initial Efficacy of an Online Sexual Health Promotion Program for LGBT Youth: The Queer Sex Ed Intervention. _J Sex Res_ 2015; **52** (2): 220-30.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9. Marx RA, Kettrey HH. Gay-Straight Alliances are Associated with Lower Levels of School-Based Victimization of LGBTQ+ Youth: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis. _J Youth Adolesc_ 2016; **45** (7): 1269-82.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10. Saewyc EM, Konishi C, Rose HA, Homma Y. School-Based Strategies to Reduce Suicidal Ideation, Suicide Attempts, and Discrimination among Sexual Minority and Heterosexual Adolescents in Western Canada. _Int J Child Youth Family Stud_ 2014; **5** (1): 89-112.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11. Ryan C, Russell ST, Huebner D, Diaz R, Sanchez J. Family acceptance in adolescence and the health of LGBT young adults. _J Child Adolesc Psychiatr Nurs_ 2010; **23** (4): 205-13.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12. Simons L, Schrager SM, Clark LF, Belzer M, Olson J. Parental support and mental health among transgender adolescents. _Journal of Adolescent Health_ 2013; **53** (6): 791-3.

Page last reviewed: December 20, 2019

Content source: Division of Adolescent and School Health, National Center for
HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

home DASH Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About DASHplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * At A Glance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Why Schools?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Health: What Works In Schoolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Safe and Supportive School Environments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youth HIV, STD & Pregnancy Prevention Program Impact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Calendar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Contact DASH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Adolescent and School Health Policyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * DASH Partner Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policy Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Policy Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State School-Based Health Education Law Summary Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Data By Topicplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nutrition, Physical Activity, & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Profilesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Map & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Requesting Data Files
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SHPPSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * YRBSSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Maps & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Trends Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * NYPANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Disparitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Addressing Health and Educational Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Considerations for LGBTQ Youthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Protective Factors for LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Health Disparities Among LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Terminology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Survey of Todayâs Adolescent Relationships and Transitions (START)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funded Areasplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Notice of Funding Opportunities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Local Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded State Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Territorial Agency and Tribal Nation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded NGOs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Protective Factorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parent Engagement in Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Positive Parenting Practices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Services for Teensplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Condom Availability Programs (CAPs)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: In Brief
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: Things to Consider
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * High-Risk Substance Use Among Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sexual Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Evaluationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Evaluations of Innovative Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Additional Evaluation Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health & Academicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Anti-Bullying Policies and Enumeration: An Infobrief for Local Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How the WSCC Model Informs HIV, STD, and Pregnancy Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Whole School, Whole Community, Whole Child (WSCC) Model
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * GYT: Get Yourself Tested for High Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Curriculum Analysis Tool (HECAT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HECAT FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Teacher Training Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Publications, Registries, and Other Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Registries of Programs Effective in Reducing Youth Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * NYHAAD Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * HIV Information and Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Portrait Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Buttons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Palm Cards & Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specific Audiencesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Planning for Program Success
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Grants Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Program Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reporting Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parents

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Related CDC Sites

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Equity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Disparities in HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STDs, and TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Healthy Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Minority Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * NCHHSTP Strategic Priorities

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

