

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Adolescent and School Health

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# What Works: Overview

Minus

Related Pages

## Evidence-Based Strategies for Your School

![what works: delivering sexual health education, increasing access to sexual
health services, and promoting safe and supportive
environments](/healthyyouth/whatworks/images/what_works_pillars.png)

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's Division of Adolescent and
School Health (DASH) has established an evidence-based approach schools can
implement to help prevent HIV, STDs, and unintended pregnancy among
adolescents. It includes delivering **sexual health education** , increasing
access to **sexual health services** , and promoting **safe and supportive
environments**. This info brief provides an overview of this approach and
information to help educators, staff, and administrators as they implement
HIV, STD, and unintended pregnancy prevention efforts in their schools.

pdf iconPrint Version

What Are the Risks? A Current Snapshot of Student Health

Data from CDC's Youth Risk Behavior Survey show that fewer high school
students engage in health behaviors that put them at risk. But even though
adolescents are making better decisions about their health, far too many are
still at risk for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), sexually transmitted
diseases (STDs), and unintended pregnancy.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 46% of U.S. high school students did not use a condom the last time they had sex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * More than 1 in 10 female students and 1 in 28 male students have been physically forced to have sex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 19% of high school students have been bullied at school
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nearly 1 in 7 high school students misuse prescription opioids
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * More than 47% of lesbian, gay, or bisexual students have considered suicide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Some youth engage in multiple and serious risk behaviors like high-risk substance use* and sex without condoms, and go through harmful experiences such as being a victim of violence.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youth who engage in these behaviors or who have these harmful experiences are more at risk for a variety of negative health outcomes including HIV and STDs.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * These risks are more common among some youth--including lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender youth, who are more likely to experience stigma, discrimination, family disapproval, social rejection, and violence. As a result, they are more likely to have poor health.

*High-risk substance use is any use by adolescents of substances with a high risk of adverse outcomes (i.e., injury, criminal justice involvement, school dropout, loss of life). This includes misuse of prescription drugs, use of illicit drugs (i.e., cocaine, heroin, methamphetamines, inhalants, hallucinogens, or ecstasy), and use of injection drugs (i.e., drugs that have a high risk of infection transmission of blood-borne diseases such as HIV and hepatitis).

What Works? CDC's Approach to School-Based HIV and STD Prevention

Why Are Schools Important for Promoting Student Health?

Schools offer valuable opportunities for improving adolescent health.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * They have direct contact with millions of students for at least six hours a day.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Students generally attend school throughout much of their social, physical, and intellectual development.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Many schools have staff with the knowledge to address critical health risk and protective behaviors.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Many schools have the infrastructure to support a varied set of evidence-based approaches and interventions.

CDC's Division of Adolescent and School Health (DASH) has established an
evidence-based approach to school-based HIV and STD prevention. It includes
providing quality sexual health education, connecting students to sexual
health services, and establishing safe and supportive school environments.
These evidence-based strategies benefit all students. Further, activities
related to health education and health services can be tailored to address
health outcomes other than sexual behaviors, including high-risk substance
use, violence victimization, and mental health. Promoting safe and supportive
environments can address all of these health outcomes.

Sexual Health Education

Benefits of providing SHE to students:

![48x48_she_success](/healthyyouth/whatworks/images/48x48_she_success.png)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Knowledge to reduce sexual risk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Condom negotiation skills
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Self-efficacy to delay sexual activity

Quality sexual health education (SHE) is a systematic approach to preparing
students with the knowledge and skills needed to make informed health
decisions to prevent HIV, STDs, and unintended pregnancy.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sexual health education includes planned, progressive learning objectives and outcomes across grade levels (K-12).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sexual health education addresses knowledge and skills students need before risk behaviors and health issues emerge.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Effective SHE programs: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Are taught by qualified and trained teachers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Connect students to health services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Engage parents and community partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Foster positive relationships between students and trusted adults.

Students who receive evidence-based SHE can reduce health risk behaviors and
experiences and may improve their academic performance in school.

Read more

Sexual Health Services

Benefits of connecting students to SHS:

![48x48_shs_success](/healthyyouth/whatworks/images/48x48_shs_success.png)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Risk-reduction counseling
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * HIV and STD testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Contraceptive use

Sexual health services (SHS) give students access to preventive health care,
such as STD testing, HIV testing, contraception, and condoms, and referrals to
appropriate treatment, if needed.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Through SHS, students can gain access to broad preventive health services, such as sexual risk assessments and counseling on healthy decision making and protective behaviors.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Schools can connect students to SHS by providing the services on site or by referring students to youth-friendly health care providers in the community.

These services can provide students with information, education, support,
referrals, and counseling for a broad range of health behaviors and
experiences that can affect healthy development.

Read more

Safe and Supportive Environments

Benefits of promoting SSE:

![48x48_sse_success](/healthyyouth/whatworks/images/48x48_sse_success.png)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * School connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Parental monitoring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Parent-adolescent communication

Creating safe and supportive environments (SSE) emphasizes aspects of school
settings and family relationships that can protect adolescents and reduce
their risk for HIV, STDs, and unintended pregnancy.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * These protective factors include school connectedness, parental monitoring, and parent-adolescent communication (both generally and specifically  
about sex).

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Safe and supportive environments connect adolescents to a network of caring peers and adults, including parents, other primary caregivers, and teachers.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Improving environments can have a broad and lasting positive impact on health. It also establishes a context for sexual health education and sexual health services to be effective.

Creating SSE involves schools, communities, families, and youth working
together to protect students' health and improve academic performance.

Read more

For More Information

Schools provide students with the opportunity to learn the importance of
behaviors and skills needed to engage in a healthy lifestyle now and into
adulthood. Learn more about CDC's school-based approach to HIV and STD
prevention in the Program Guidance.

References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. CDC, Division of Adolescent and School Health, National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention. Youth Risk Behavior Survey Data Summary & Trends Report, 2007-2017pdf icon. Atlanta, GA: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Office of Infectious Diseases, NCHHSTP; 2018.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2. Braxton J, Davis DW, Grey J, et al. Sexually Transmitted Disease Surveillance 2016pdf icon. Published September 2017.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Diagnoses of HIV Infection in the United States and Dependent Areas, 2016; vol. 28pdf icon. Published November 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4. Johns MM, Lowry R, Andrzejewski J, et al. Transgender identity and experiences of violence victimization, substance use, suicide risk, and sexual risk behaviors among high school students -- 19 states and large urban school districts, 2017external icon. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2019;68:67-71.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5. Kann L, Olsen EO, McManus T, et al. Sexual identity, sex of sexual contacts, and health-related behaviors among students in grades 9-12 -- United States and selected sites, 2015external icon. MMWR Surveill Summ 2016;65(No. SS-9):1-202.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6. Kann L, McManus T, Harris WA, et al. Youth risk behavior surveillance--United States, 2017.MMWR Surveill Summ. 2018;67(8):1-114.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7. National Center for Education Statistics. Fast Facts: Back to School Statistics. US Department of Educationexternal icon. Washington, DC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8. National Center for Education Statistics. The Condition of Education: Elementary and Secondary Enrollmentexternal icon. Updated May 2018.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. PS18-1807 Program Guidance: Guidance for School-based HIV/STD Prevention (Component 2) Recipients of PS18-1807. Atlanta, GA: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; 2019.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10. DiClemente RJ, Salazar LF, Crosby RA, Rosenthal SL. Prevention and control of sexually transmitted infections among adolescents: the importance of a socio-ecological perspective-a commentary. Pub Health. 2005;119(9):825-836.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11. Markham CM, Lormand D, Gloppen KM, et al. Connectedness as a predictor of sexual and reproductive health outcomes for youth. J Adolesc Health. 2010;46(3 Suppl):S23-41.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12. Dittus PJ, Michael SL, Becasen JS, Gloppen KM, McCarthy K, Guilamo-Ramos V. Parental monitoring and its associations with adolescent sexual risk behavior: A meta-analysis. Pediatrics. 2015;136(6):e1587- 1599.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  13. Frieden TR. A framework for public health action: the health impact pyramid. Am J Pub Health. 2010;100(4):590-595.

Page last reviewed: February 3, 2020

Content source: Division of Adolescent and School Health, National Center for
HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

home DASH Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About DASHplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * At A Glance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Why Schools?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Health: What Works In Schoolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Safe and Supportive School Environments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youth HIV, STD & Pregnancy Prevention Program Impact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Calendar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Contact DASH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Adolescent and School Health Policyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * DASH Partner Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policy Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Policy Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State School-Based Health Education Law Summary Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Data By Topicplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nutrition, Physical Activity, & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Profilesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Map & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Requesting Data Files
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SHPPSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * YRBSSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Maps & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Trends Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * NYPANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Disparitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Addressing Health and Educational Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Considerations for LGBTQ Youthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Protective Factors for LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Health Disparities Among LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Terminology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Survey of Todayâs Adolescent Relationships and Transitions (START)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funded Areasplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Notice of Funding Opportunities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Local Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded State Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Territorial Agency and Tribal Nation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded NGOs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Protective Factorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parent Engagement in Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Positive Parenting Practices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Services for Teensplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Condom Availability Programs (CAPs)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: In Brief
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: Things to Consider
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * High-Risk Substance Use Among Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sexual Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Evaluationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Evaluations of Innovative Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Additional Evaluation Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health & Academicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Anti-Bullying Policies and Enumeration: An Infobrief for Local Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How the WSCC Model Informs HIV, STD, and Pregnancy Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Whole School, Whole Community, Whole Child (WSCC) Model
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * GYT: Get Yourself Tested for High Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Curriculum Analysis Tool (HECAT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HECAT FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Teacher Training Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Publications, Registries, and Other Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Registries of Programs Effective in Reducing Youth Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * NYHAAD Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * HIV Information and Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Portrait Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Buttons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Palm Cards & Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specific Audiencesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Planning for Program Success
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Grants Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Program Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reporting Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parents

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

