

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Adolescent and School Health

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Anti-Bullying Policies and Enumeration: An Infobrief for Local Education
Agencies

Minus

Related Pages

Print Version

Cdc-pdf[PDF - 3 MB]

Anti-bullying laws and policies at the state and local levels are common
components of current bullying prevention efforts.1 Every stateExternal has an
anti-bullying law or policy. Many local school districts also establish anti-
bullying policies.

The infobrief focuses on one component some jurisdictions include in their
anti-bullying policy - enumeration. This resource explains what enumeration
means, summarizes research on enumerated anti-bullying policies, and provides
evidence and practice-informed considerations for implementing strong anti-
bullying policies, including those that are enumerated.

What is Enumeration?

Bullying among youth is a serious problem. Data from the national Youth Risk
Behavior Survey (YRBS) showed that, in 2017 19% of U.S. high school students
were bullied on school property and 15% were bullied electronically during the
12 months before the survey.10

**Enumeration in the context of anti-bullying policies refers to any specific
listing of traits or characteristics of students that could be the basis of
bullying.** Enumerated anti-bullying laws or policies usually refer to those
policies that list the traits or characteristics of students who have
historically been targets of bullying. Common characteristics include race,
disability, religion, sex or gender, national origin, sexual orientation,
ancestry/ethnicity, and gender identity or expression. These traits or
characteristics can be actual or perceived by those who do the bullying.

In 1996 the U.S. Supreme Court articulated support for enumeration as an
"essential device used to make the duty not to discriminate concrete."2

Enumeration can send a broad message to school staff, students and families
about values regarding appropriate behavior,3-5 and enumeration is listed as
one of eleven key components of anti-bullying policy by the U.S. Department of
Education.6 Stopbullying.gov indicates what characteristics each state policy
enumeratesExternal, if any.

Enumeration of sexual orientation and gender identity is increasingly the
focus of discussion about enumerated anti-bullying policies given that
lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) students are more likely to be
bullied at school than their heterosexual and cisgender peers.7-8 Across
states, 78%-99% of secondary schools prohibit harassment based on a student's
perceived or actual sexual orientation or gender identity.9

What the Research Says

![attentive students in
classroom](/healthyyouth/images/attentive_students_classroom.jpg)

Some studies have found that enumerating sexual orientation and gender
identity in anti-bullying policies is associated with less bullying and better
health outcomes for LGBT youth.11-13 For example, an analysis of a large
convenience sample of sexual minority youth aged 13-21 years found lower
levels of bullying victimization in schools with policies that enumerate
sexual orientation.11 Another study using the same student-level data from the
National School Climate Survey found that LGBT students in districts with
enumerated policies reported greater school safety, less victimization based
on their sexual orientation and gender expression, and less social aggression
than students in districts with generic policies or no/unidentified
policies.12 Another study looked at 11th grade public school students in
Oregon and found that lesbian and gay teens are less likely to attempt suicide
if they live in areas with school districts that include sexual orientation as
a protected characteristic in anti-bullying policies.13

Additional research is needed to fully understand the impact of enumerating
anti-bullying policies as some studies suggest that enumeration does not have
an effect on all identified groups.1,14 For example, a study using data from
25 states found that having at least one recommended legislative component for
anti-bullying policies was protective against bullying and cyberbullying.
However no significant effect was found for enumeration, specifically.15
Researchers have also found that anti-bullying policies, regardless of
enumeration, were not associated with lower disparities in bullying and
cyberbullying based on weight; high compliance with Department of Education
enumeration guidelines was linked to small improvements in disparities in
bullying victimization based on sex.16 Further, it is unclear whether
enumeration sufficiently protects students who are bullied based on
characteristics that are not enumerated. Future research should explore this
issue to help ensure that enumerated laws and policies work as intended to
protect _all students_ from bullying.

What Local Education Agencies Can Do

![orange lockers](/healthyyouth/images/orange_lockers.jpg)

Regardless of whether or not local education agencies enumerate their anti-
bullying policy, establishing and implementing strong anti-bullying policies
has the potential to prevent bullying. Local education agencies that enumerate
will want to ensure that the policy protects all students.

##### **Key Considerations for ALL Anti-Bullying Policies**

**Enumerated or not, strong anti-bullying policies will:6,17-19**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     * Provide a clear definition of bullying, consistent with state laws, that includes prohibited actions.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State locations where bullying might take place, such as school grounds, school events, and the internet, that are covered by the policy.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Describe graduated sanctions and consequences for incidents of bullying, including non-punitive alternatives.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Include a statement of rights to other legal recourse.

##### **Actions for Effective Implementation of ALL Anti-Bullying Policies**

**All anti-bullying policies should have guidance for effectively implementing
the policy. Having a policy "on the books" is not enough. The policy needs to
be consistently enforced. This involves the following:6,19**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     * Determine how the policy will be enforced, by whom, and how enforcement will be monitored.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Educate staff, students, and families regularly about the policy using multiple channels (e.g., newsletters, emails, Facebook, etc.).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Train staff and students to recognize bullying and respond safely and effectively.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Establish a system to support reporting of bullying with protection from retaliation and promptly investigate and respond to reports of bullying.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Refer perpetrators and victims to counseling and other services.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Support effective school-based violence prevention programs that combine whole-school programs with classroom curricula and small group or individual-level programs that include mentoring and address social skills.

##### **Additional Considerations for ENUMERATED Anti-Bullying Policies**

**To ensure protection for all students, enumerated policies should: 7**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     * State that all students are protected under the policy, even if they are not represented by the traits or characteristics enumerated in the policy. Using phrases like "including but not limited to" or "any other distinguishing characteristics" when enumerating characteristics helps make this clear.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Acknowledge that not all acts of bullying are based on enumerated characteristics and that the types of things that make a student more likely to be the target of bullying change over time and from place to place.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Include background information explaining that students with certain characteristics, actual or perceived by others, may be more likely to experience bullying.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * List examples of characteristics that might be the basis of bullying. It is important to state that these characteristics might be actual (e.g., a student is openly gay) or perceived (e.g., others think that a student is gay).

References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. National Academies of Sciences E, and Medicine Preventing Bullying Through Science, Policy, and Practice. Washington, DC: The National Academies Press; 2016.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2. Romer v. Evans, 517 U.S. 620 (1996).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3. Wright M. Spelling Out LGBT: Enumerating Sexual Orientation in Virginia's Bullying Law. University of Richmond Law Review. 2013:47;1373-1401.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4. Sacks J, Salem RS. Victims without Legal Remedies: Why Kids Need Schools to Develop Comprehensive Antibullying Policies. Albany Law Review. 2009;72(3):147-190.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5. Cornell D, Limber SP. Law and Policy on the Concept of Bullying at School. American Psychologist. 2015;70(4): 333-343.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6. S. Department of Education, Office of Planning, Evaluation, and Policy Development, Policy and Program Studies Services. Analysis of State Bullying Laws and Policies. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Department of Education; 2011.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7. Olsen EO, Kann L, Vivolo-Kantor A, Kinchen S, McManus T. School violence and Bullying among Sexual Minority High School Students, 2009-2011\. J Adolesc Health. 2014;55(3): 432-438.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8. Reisner SL, Greytak EA, Parsons JT, Ybarra ML. Gender Minority Social Stress in Adolescence: Disparities in Adolescent Bullying and Substance Use by Gender Identity. J Sex Res 2015; 52(3): 243-56.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9. Brener ND, Demissie Z, McManus T, Shanklin SL, Queen B, Kann L. School Health Profiles 2016: Characteristics of Health Programs Among Secondary Schools. Atlanta: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; 2017.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10. Kann L, McManus T, Harris WA, et al. Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance--United States, 2017. Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report. Surveillance Summaries. 2018; 67(No. SS-7).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11. Kosciw JG, Greytak EA, Palmer NA, Boesen MJ. The 2015 National School Climate Survey: The Experiences of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer Youth in our Nation's Schools. New York: GLSEN; 2016.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12. Kull RM GE, Kosciw JG, Villenas C. Effectiveness of School District Antibullying Policies in Improving LGBT Youths' School Climate. Psychol Sex Orientat Gend Divers. 2016;3(4):407-415.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  13. Hatzenbuehler ML, Keyes KM. Inclusive Anti-Bullying Policies and Reducing Risk of Suicide Attempts in Lesbian and Gay Youth. J Adolesc Health. 2013:53(1 Suppl);521-526.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  14. Earnshaw VA, Reisner SL, Juvonen J, Hatzenbuehler ML, Perrotti J, Schuster MA. LGBTQ Bullying: Translating Research to Action in Pediatrics. Pediatrics. 2017;140(4).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  15. Hatzenbuehler ML, Schwab-Reese L, Ranapurwala SI, Hertz MF, Ramirez MR. Associations Between Antibullying Policies and Bullying in 25 States. JAMA Pediatr. 2015;169(10):e152411.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  16. Hatzenbuehler ML, Flores JE, Cavanaugh JE, Onwuachi-Willig A, Ramirez MR. Anti-bullying Policies and Disparities in Bullying: A State-Level Analysis. Am J Prev Med. 2017;53(2):184-191.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  17. Ozer E. Contextual Effects in School-based Violence Prevention Programs: A Conceptual Framework and Empirical Review. J Primary Prev. 2006;27:315-340.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  18. Hoover JH, Oliver R. The Bullying Prevention Handbook: A Guide for Principals, Teachers, and Counselors. 2nd edition. Bloomington, IN: Solution Tree Press, 2008.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  19. Vreeman RC, Carroll AE. A Systematic Review of School-based Interventions to Prevent Bullying. Arch Ped Adolesc Med. 2007;161:78-88.

Page last reviewed: June 8, 2018

Content source: Division of Adolescent and School Health, National Center for
HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

home DASH Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About DASHplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * At A Glance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Why Schools?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Health: What Works In Schoolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Safe and Supportive School Environments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youth HIV, STD & Pregnancy Prevention Program Impact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Calendar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Contact DASH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Adolescent and School Health Policyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * DASH Partner Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policy Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Policy Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State School-Based Health Education Law Summary Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Data By Topicplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nutrition, Physical Activity, & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Profilesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Map & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Requesting Data Files
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SHPPSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * YRBSSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Maps & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Trends Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * NYPANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Disparitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Addressing Health and Educational Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Considerations for LGBTQ Youthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Protective Factors for LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Health Disparities Among LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Terminology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Survey of Todayâs Adolescent Relationships and Transitions (START)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funded Areasplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Notice of Funding Opportunities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Local Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded State Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Territorial Agency and Tribal Nation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded NGOs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Protective Factorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parent Engagement in Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Positive Parenting Practices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Services for Teensplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Condom Availability Programs (CAPs)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: In Brief
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: Things to Consider
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * High-Risk Substance Use Among Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sexual Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Evaluationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Evaluations of Innovative Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Additional Evaluation Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health & Academicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Anti-Bullying Policies and Enumeration: An Infobrief for Local Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How the WSCC Model Informs HIV, STD, and Pregnancy Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Whole School, Whole Community, Whole Child (WSCC) Model
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * GYT: Get Yourself Tested for High Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Curriculum Analysis Tool (HECAT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HECAT FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Teacher Training Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Publications, Registries, and Other Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Registries of Programs Effective in Reducing Youth Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * NYHAAD Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * HIV Information and Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Portrait Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Buttons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Palm Cards & Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specific Audiencesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Planning for Program Success
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Grants Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Program Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reporting Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parents

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

