

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Adolescent and School Health

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# National Youth HIV & AIDS Awareness Day Resources

Minus

Related Pages

![DASH NYHAAD 2020_Toolkit
Banner_935x276](/healthyyouth/images/nyhaad/2020/DASH-NYHAAD-2020_Toolkit-
Banner_935x276.jpg)

We Can Prevent HIV!

April 10th is National Youth HIV & AIDS Awareness Day (NYHAAD)external icon.
The day was created to educate the public about the impact of HIV/AIDS on
young people and to highlight the work going on across the country to respond
to the HIV/AIDS epidemic. CDC recognizes the importance of investing in young
people's health through prevention and education as a critical step to
achieving an AIDS-free generation. Access resources on this page to educate
partners, stakeholders and community members about youth HIV prevention.

**View Topics**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * NYHAAD Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * NYHAAD Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Social Media

Additional Resources

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * users solid icon

HIV and Youth

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * hand holding heart solid icon

Sexual Risk Behaviors

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * cancer icon

CDC.gov Feature

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * globe solid icon

Youth Online

NYHAAD Graphics

![DASH-NYHAAD-2020_Email_500x500](/healthyyouth/images/nyhaad/2020/DASH-
NYHAAD-2020_Email_500x500.jpg)

Social Media and Email

Social Media Square Image image icon[1080x1080]  
Social Media Rectangular Image image icon[1200x630]  
Twitter Cover Image image icon[1500x500]  
Facebook Cover Image image icon[820x312]  
Pinterest Cover Image image icon[1000x1500]  
Email Image image icon[500x500]

![DASH-NYHAAD-2020_Button_375x312.jpg](/healthyyouth/images/nyhaad/2020/DASH-
NYHAAD-2020_Button_375x312.jpg)

Button

Copy the code below to add this "April 10 National Youth HIV/AIDS Awareness
Day" button (375x312) to your website:

Copy code to embed![April 10th National Youth HIV/AIDS Awareness Day logo with
red ribbon on multicolor
background](http://www.cdc.gov/healthyyouth/images/nyhaad/2020/DASH%20NYHAAD%202020_Button_375x312.jpg)

![NYHAAD_poster_2020_thumb](/healthyyouth/images/nyhaad/2020/NYHAAD_poster_2020_thumb.jpg)

Poster

NYHAAD 2020 Poster 24x36 pdf icon[PDF - 97 KB]  
NYHAAD 2020 Poster (No URL) 24x36 pdf icon[PDF - 90 KB]

Top of Page

NYHAAD Infographics

HIV and Risk Behaviors in Youth

![DASH_HIV_GetTested](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_HIV_GetTested-
small.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![DASH_HIV_GetTested](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_HIV_GetTested-
small.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![Infographic: DASH snapshot for condoms,
STDS](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_Snapshot_4_Condoms-
STDs-REV-medium.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Infographic: DASH snapshot for condoms,
STDS](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_Snapshot_4_Condoms-
STDs-REV-medium.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![Infographic: Students are making better decisions about sexual behaviors and
drug use. But its not enough to protect them from HIV ans
STDs.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/YRBS_2017_Better-
Decisions_But_Not-Enough-small.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Infographic: Students are making better decisions about sexual
behaviors and drug use. But its not enough to protect them from HIV ans
STDs.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/YRBS_2017_Better-
Decisions_But_Not-Enough-small.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![Infographic: Nationwide, nearly 1 in 7 students reported misusing
prescription opioids, which can lead to overdoses and future injection drug
use as well as increased risk for HIV
](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/YRBS_2017_Nearly_1-in-7_Opioid_Misuse-
small.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Infographic: Nationwide, nearly 1 in 7 students reported misusing
prescription opioids, which can lead to overdoses and future injection drug
use as well as increased risk for HIV
](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/YRBS_2017_Nearly_1-in-7_Opioid_Misuse-
small.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![Image of YRBS data helps us understand what puts students at risk for
HIV.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/WhyYRBS_HIV-Risk-small.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Image of YRBS data helps us understand what puts students at risk for
HIV.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/WhyYRBS_HIV-Risk-small.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![Infographic: Did you know? School health programs can help reduce the risk
for HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases \(STDs\) in
youth](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_DYK-School-Health-
and-STD_thumb.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Infographic: Did you know? School health programs can help reduce the
risk for HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases \(STDs\) in
youth](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_DYK-School-Health-
and-STD_thumb.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![Since 2008, fewer school across states taught HIV prevention topics,
dropping from 93% to 87% in 2018.
](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH-School-Health-
Profile-8-small.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Since 2008, fewer school across states taught HIV prevention topics,
dropping from 93&#37; to 87&#37; in 2018.
](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH-School-Health-
Profile-8-small.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![In 2018, less than 2% of schools across states provided on-site HIV or STD
testing for students.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH-
School-Health-Profile-6-small.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![In 2018, less than 2&#37; of schools across states provided on-site HIV
or STD testing for
students.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH-School-Health-
Profile-6-small.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![CDC estimates that nearly 20 million new sexually transmitted infections
occur every year in the United States, half among young people ages
15-24.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SexualRiskBehaviors_STDstatREV-
small.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![CDC estimates that nearly 20 million new sexually transmitted
infections occur every year in the United States, half among young people ages
15-24.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SexualRiskBehaviors_STDstatREV-
small.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![1 in 5 new HIV diagnoses in the United States occurs in young
people.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_NYHAAD_1in5stat-
small.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![1 in 5 new HIV diagnoses in the United States occurs in young
people.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_NYHAAD_1in5stat-
small.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![Infographic: CDC DASH
Pinterest](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/CDC-DASH-jan-
pinterest-infographic-V09_thumb.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Infographic: CDC DASH
Pinterest](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/CDC-DASH-jan-
pinterest-infographic-V09_thumb.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

Strategies and Protective Factors

![Parent Engagement: Research shows that when parents and school staff work
together, students are healthier and more
successful.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_ProtectiveFactors_ParentEngagement-
small.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Parent Engagement: Research shows that when parents and school staff
work together, students are healthier and more
successful.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_ProtectiveFactors_ParentEngagement-
small.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![Teens report that their parents have the greatest influence over their risk
behavior decisions--more than friends, siblings, or the
media.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_ParentalInfluence_RiskBehaviors-
small.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Teens report that their parents have the greatest influence over their
risk behavior decisions--more than friends, siblings, or the
media.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_ParentalInfluence_RiskBehaviors-
small.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![Parent Engagement: Research shows that when parents and school staff work
together, students are healthier and more
successful.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_ParentalMonitoring_Asks-
small.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Parent Engagement: Research shows that when parents and school staff
work together, students are healthier and more
successful.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_ParentalMonitoring_Asks-
small.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![Teens report that their parents have the greatest influence over their risk
behavior decisions--more than friends, siblings, or the
media.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_ParentEngagement_SchoolsandParents-
small.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Teens report that their parents have the greatest influence over their
risk behavior decisions--more than friends, siblings, or the
media.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_ParentEngagement_SchoolsandParents-
small.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![Parent Engagement: Research shows that when parents and school staff work
together, students are healthier and more
successful.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_PositiveParenting_MatterofChoice-
small.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Parent Engagement: Research shows that when parents and school staff
work together, students are healthier and more
successful.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_PositiveParenting_MatterofChoice-
small.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![How can fathers help their adolescents avoid sexual risk behaviors? By being
available to talk regularly and setting clear
expectations.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH-Parental-
Engagement-1024x512-REV2B-small.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![How can fathers help their adolescents avoid sexual risk behaviors? By
being available to talk regularly and setting clear
expectations.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH-Parental-
Engagement-1024x512-REV2B-small.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

Schools and Health

![Schools play a critical role in promoting the health and saftey of young
people and helping them establish lifelong healthy
behaviors.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_WhySchools_SchoolHealth-
small.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Schools play a critical role in promoting the health and saftey of
young people and helping them establish lifelong healthy
behaviors.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_WhySchools_SchoolHealth-
small.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![DASH_SchoolConnectedness_Tips](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SchoolConnectedness_Tips-
small.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![DASH_SchoolConnectedness_Tips](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SchoolConnectedness_Tips-
small.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![DASH_SchoolConnectedness_NotComplicated](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SchoolConnectedness_NotComplicated-
small.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![DASH_SchoolConnectedness_NotComplicated](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SchoolConnectedness_NotComplicated-
small.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![DASH_WhySchools_SchoolHealthPrograms](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_WhySchools_SchoolHealthPrograms-
small.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![DASH_WhySchools_SchoolHealthPrograms](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_WhySchools_SchoolHealthPrograms-
small.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![DASH_Schools_16Mstat.jpg](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_Schools_16Mstat-
small.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![DASH_Schools_16Mstat.jpg](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_Schools_16Mstat-
small.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![DASH_SchoolConnectedness_4factors](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SchoolConnectedness_4factors-
small.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![DASH_SchoolConnectedness_4factors](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SchoolConnectedness_4factors-
small.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![DASH_SchoolConnectedness_Students](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SchoolConnectedness_Students-
small.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![DASH_SchoolConnectedness_Students](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SchoolConnectedness_Students-
small.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![DASH_SchoolConnectedness_Illustrations](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SchoolConnectedness_Illustrations-
small.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![DASH_SchoolConnectedness_Illustrations](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SchoolConnectedness_Illustrations-
small.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![adolescent_connectedness/adolescent_connectedness_schools](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/adolescent_connectedness/adolescent_connectedness_schools-
small.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![adolescent_connectedness/adolescent_connectedness_schools](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/adolescent_connectedness/adolescent_connectedness_schools-
small.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![Image of YRBS data has been used to inform teacher professional
development.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/WhyYRBS_Teacher-
Prof-Dev-small.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Image of YRBS data has been used to inform teacher professional
development.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/WhyYRBS_Teacher-
Prof-Dev-small.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![Infographic shows information on how School Health profiles data helps
school administrators understand
Trends.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH-School-Health-
Profiles-4-small.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Infographic shows information on how School Health profiles data helps
school administrators understand
Trends.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH-School-Health-
Profiles-4-small.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![Infographic shows how educators and health officials use School Health
Profiles data to: ](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH-School-
Health-Profiles-5-small.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Infographic shows how educators and health officials use School Health
Profiles data to: ](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH-School-
Health-Profiles-5-small.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![DASH Twitter image: Adolescent Health: What Works In Schools. The Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention’s Division of Adolescent and School Health
has established an evidence-based approach to school-based HIV and STD
prevention, which includes quality sexual health education, connecting
students to sexual health services, and establishing safe and supportive
school environments. ](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH-What-
Works-OVERVIEW-Twitter-1024x512-small.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![DASH Twitter image: Adolescent Health: What Works In Schools. The
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s Division of Adolescent and School
Health has established an evidence-based approach to school-based HIV and STD
prevention, which includes quality sexual health education, connecting
students to sexual health services, and establishing safe and supportive
school environments. ](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH-What-
Works-OVERVIEW-Twitter-1024x512-small.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![Health and Academics Policy Success
Story](/healthyyouth/images/health_acad/health_and_academics_policy_success_story-
small.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Health and Academics Policy Success
Story](/healthyyouth/images/health_acad/health_and_academics_policy_success_story-
small.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![adolescent_connectedness/adolescent_connectedness_general](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/adolescent_connectedness/adolescent_connectedness_general-
small.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![adolescent_connectedness/adolescent_connectedness_general](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/adolescent_connectedness/adolescent_connectedness_general-
small.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

Healthcare Providers

![Infographic: As adolescents develop, it makes sense for them to be more
engaged in their own health
care.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_HCP-1-on-1-Time_thumb.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Infographic: As adolescents develop, it makes sense for them to be more
engaged in their own health
care.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_HCP-1-on-1-Time_thumb.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![Infographic: Adolescent Connectedness: Throughout adolescence, healthcare
providers have apportunites to promote school and family connectedness. When
youth feel connected, the positive effects can last into
adulthood.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/Adolescent-
Connectedness_4_Recs-HCP_Final-small.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Infographic: Adolescent Connectedness: Throughout adolescence,
healthcare providers have apportunites to promote school and family
connectedness. When youth feel connected, the positive effects can last into
adulthood.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/Adolescent-
Connectedness_4_Recs-HCP_Final-small.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

Top of Page

Fact Sheets

Education Agencies

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CAPS: Things to Consider
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Developing a Scope and Sequence for Sexual Health Educationpdf icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How Schools Can Support HIV Testing Among Adolescentspdf icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Monitoring Your Teen's Activities: What Parents and Families Should Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Parent Engagement: For School Districts and School Administrators
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Parent Engagement: For Teachers and Other School Staff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Promoting Parent Engagement in Schools to Prevent HIV and other STDs Among Teenspdf icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sexual Health Education Scope and Sequencepdf icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sexual Health Services (SHS)pdf icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What Works: Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What Works: Safe and Supportive School Environments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What Works: Sexual Health Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What Works: Sexual Health Services

Parents

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Monitoring Your Teen's Activities: What Parents and Families Should Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Parent Engagement: For Parents and Families
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Parents' Influence on the Health of Lesbian, Gay, and Bisexual Teens: What Parents and Families Should Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Talking with Teens - The Office of Adolescent Healthexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Talking with Your Teens about Sex: Going Beyond "the Talk"pdf icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Teen Health Services and One-On-One Time with A Healthcare Provider: An Infobrief for Parentspdf icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ways to Influence Your Teen's Sexual Risk Behavior: What Fathers Can Dopdf icon

Healthcare Providers

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Developing a Referral System for Sexual Health Servicesexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sexual Health Services (SHS) Fact Sheetpdf icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Teen Health Services and One-On-One Time with A Healthcare Provider: An Infobrief for Parentspdf icon

Individuals

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Condom Do's & Don't'spdf icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * HIV Basics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * HIV Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Office of Adolescent Healthexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * STD Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What Works in Youth HIVexternal icon

Top of Page

### Social Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Parents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Healthcare Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * General

Use sample content on Twitter, Facebook, or other social media platforms.
Incorporate #NYHAAD to get NYHAAD content trending.

**Twitter**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * April 10th is National Youth #HIV & AIDS Awareness Day, an opportunity to discuss the connection between education and health in the fight against #HIV. https://go.usa.gov/xX9Kv #NYHAAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Schools play a key role in reducing youth risk for #HIV by teaching and supporting healthy behaviors. https://go.usa.gov/xX9Kv #NYHAAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * School-based #HealthEd programs provide youth with a safe and supportive environment to learn about #HIV prevention. https://go.usa.gov/xX9Kv #NYHAAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How can schools encourage students to get tested for #HIV? 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Access the #CDCYRBS data.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Educate students about HIV.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Connect students with health services.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Encourage students & their parents to talk about HIV.

Learn more this #NYHAAD: https://go.usa.gov/xX9Bn

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Over the last 10 years, the percentage of students who ever had sex has declined. Unfortunately, condom use has also gone down, putting more youth at risk for #HIV, STDs, & pregnancy. This #NYHAAD, learn more about the latest #CDCYRBS data: https://go.usa.gov/xU9SS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * This #NYHAAD, we look to the latest #SchoolHealth Profiles results, which show fewer schools are teaching #HIV in the classroom. Quality sexual health education can improve health outcomes for youth. Learn more: https://go.usa.gov/xmeVJ.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Protecting student health can improve academic performance. But how do #schools know what works? This #NYHAAD, check out DASH's series about what's working in schools: https://go.usa.gov/xdZDp.

**Facebook**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * April 10th is National Youth HIV and AIDS Awareness Day! Support youth HIV prevention by promoting school-based health education programs. https://go.usa.gov/xX9Kv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * This National Youth HIV and AIDS Awareness Day, we look to the latest Youth Risk Behavior Survey (YRBS) results, which show far too many youth are at risk for HIV. Learn more about how schools can support HIV testing among adolescents: https://go.usa.gov/xX9Bn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * This National Youth HIV and AIDS Awareness Day, we look to the latest School Health Profiles results, which show fewer schools are teaching HIV prevention in the classroom. Quality sexual health education can improve health outcomes for youth. Learn more: https://go.usa.gov/xmeVJ.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Protecting student health can improve academic performance. But how do #schools know what works? This National Youth HIV and AIDS Awareness Day, check out DASH's new series about what's working in schools: https://go.usa.gov/xdZDp.

Use sample content on Twitter, Facebook, or other social media platforms.
Incorporate #NYHAAD to get NYHAAD content trending.

**Twitter**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * April 10th is National Youth HIV & AIDS Awareness Day. When parents communicate honestly with their adolescents about #HIV prevention, they promote healthy decisions. http://go.usa.gov/x9E6Q #NYHAAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * #Parents: Being involved in your adolescents' lives makes it more likely they will avoid behaviors that put them at risk for getting #HIV. https://go.usa.gov/xX9Kc #NYHAAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Parents: #CDCYRBS tells us adolescents are making better choices about sexual behaviors, but it's not enough to protect them from #HIV. Learn more: go.usa.gov/xQFJ8. #NYHAAD

**Facebook**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Parents: Being engaged in your adolescents' lives can help them make healthier choices that may reduce their risk for getting HIV. https://go.usa.gov/xX9Kc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Parents: CDC's latest Youth Risk Behavior Survey (YRBS) tells us adolescents are making better choices about sexual behaviors, but it's not enough to protect them from HIV. Learn more: go.usa.gov/xQFJ8

Use sample content on Twitter, Facebook, or other social media platforms.
Incorporate #NYHAAD to get NYHAAD content trending.

**Twitter**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * April 10th is National Youth HIV & AIDS Awareness Day. When youth talk openly with their #HealthcareProvider about #SexualHealth they can receive personalized #HIV prevention strategies. https://go.usa.gov/xX9Bn #NYHAAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * #Clinicians help provide age-appropriate, stigma-free, culturally competent #HIV info and care to youth. Learn more about the benefit of confidential health services for young patients. https://go.usa.gov/xX9QX #NYHAAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * It's important for youth to have a #HealthcareProvider they can trust when it comes to discussing topics like #SexualHealth. https://go.usa.gov/xX9QX #NYHAAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * #Clinicians: Youth are making better sexual health decisions, but it's not enough to protect them from #HIV. #CDCYRBS data like this is critical to helping us develop ways to address adolescent behaviors/experiences. Find the latest results: https://go.usa.gov/xU9SS #NYHAAD

**Facebook**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * April 10th is National Youth HIV & AIDS Awareness Day. Healthcare providers: take this opportunity to talk with your adolescent patients about the importance of HIV prevention, testing, and treatment. https://go.usa.gov/xX9Bn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Clinicians: Youth are making better health decisions, but it's not enough to protect them from HIV. Data like this from CDC's Youth Risk Behavior Survey (YRBS) is critical to helping us develop ways to address adolescent behaviors/experiences. Find the latest results: https://go.usa.gov/xU9SS

Use sample content on Twitter, Facebook, or other social media platforms.
Incorporate #NYHAAD to get NYHAAD content trending.

**Twitter**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * April 10th is National Youth #HIV and AIDS Awareness Day! Use hashtag #NYHAAD to follow the conversation and get involved! https://go.usa.gov/xXnQd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Did you know? One in five new #HIV diagnoses in the United States occur in young people aged 13-24. https://go.usa.gov/xdEZA #NYHAAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * April 10th is National Youth HIV & AIDS Awareness Day. #NYHAAD reminds us of the importance of investing in young people's health and education. School-based #HealthEd programs provide youth with a safe and supportive environment to learn about #HIV prevention.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Help strengthen the fight against #HIV in youth by supporting safe and supportive schools, #HealthEd and #HIV testing. #NYHAAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Learn why youth #HIV prevention is key to reaching an #HIVFreeGeneration. https://go.usa.gov/xXrgc #NYHAAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Get involved! When communities, schools and families work together they can help prevent #HIV among youth. https://go.usa.gov/xXrgc #NYHAAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youth are making better sexual health decisions, but it's not enough to protect them from #HIV. #CDCYRBS data like this is critical to helping us develop ways to address adolescent behaviors/experiences. Find the latest results: https://go.usa.gov/xU9SS. #NYHAAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sexual health services, including #HIV testing and treatment, can significantly improve an adolescent's immediate and lifelong health. Learn more this #NYHAAD about what's working in schools: https://go.usa.gov/xdkD6.

**Facebook**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * April 10th is National Youth HIV & AIDS Awareness Day! Families, communities, and schools all play an important role in promoting healthy behaviors of youth. Find out how you can support youth #HIV prevention. https://go.usa.gov/xXrgc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youth are making better sexual health decisions, but it's not enough to protect them from HIV. Data like this from CDC's Youth Risk Behavior Survey (YRBS) is critical to helping us develop ways to address adolescent behaviors/experiences. Find the latest results: https://go.usa.gov/xU9SS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sexual health services, including HIV testing and treatment, can significantly improve an adolescent's immediate and lifelong health by catching health issues early and providing effective treatments. Learn more this National Youth HIV & AIDS Awareness Day about what's working in schools: https://go.usa.gov/xdkD6.

Top of Page

Page last reviewed: March 10, 2020

Content source: Division of Adolescent and School Health, National Center for
HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

home DASH Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About DASHplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * At A Glance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Why Schools?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Health: What Works In Schoolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Safe and Supportive School Environments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youth HIV, STD & Pregnancy Prevention Program Impact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Calendar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Contact DASH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Adolescent and School Health Policyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * DASH Partner Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policy Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Policy Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State School-Based Health Education Law Summary Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Data By Topicplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nutrition, Physical Activity, & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Profilesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Map & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Requesting Data Files
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SHPPSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * YRBSSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Maps & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Trends Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * NYPANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Disparitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Addressing Health and Educational Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Considerations for LGBTQ Youthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Protective Factors for LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Health Disparities Among LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Terminology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Survey of Todayâs Adolescent Relationships and Transitions (START)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funded Areasplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Notice of Funding Opportunities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Local Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded State Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Territorial Agency and Tribal Nation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded NGOs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Protective Factorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parent Engagement in Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Positive Parenting Practices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Services for Teensplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Condom Availability Programs (CAPs)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: In Brief
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: Things to Consider
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * High-Risk Substance Use Among Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sexual Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Evaluationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Evaluations of Innovative Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Additional Evaluation Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health & Academicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Anti-Bullying Policies and Enumeration: An Infobrief for Local Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How the WSCC Model Informs HIV, STD, and Pregnancy Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Whole School, Whole Community, Whole Child (WSCC) Model
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * GYT: Get Yourself Tested for High Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Curriculum Analysis Tool (HECAT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HECAT FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Teacher Training Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Publications, Registries, and Other Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Registries of Programs Effective in Reducing Youth Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * NYHAAD Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * HIV Information and Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Portrait Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Buttons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Palm Cards & Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specific Audiencesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Planning for Program Success
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Grants Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Program Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reporting Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parents

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

