

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Adolescent and School Health

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# The Whole School, Whole Community, Whole Child (WSCC) Model

Minus

Related Pages

Every child in every school deserves to be healthy, safe, engaged, supported,
and challenged. That is the focus of the Whole School, Whole Community, Whole
Child (WSCC) model. CDC and ASCD developed this model in collaboration with
key leaders from the fields of health, public health, education, and school
health. The WSCC model strengthens a unified and collaborative approach
designed to improve learning and health in our nation's schools. You can see
how the model informs HIV, STD, and pregnancy prevention by viewing an
animated video.

![Whole School, Whole Community, Whole Child \(WSCC\)
model](/healthyyouth/wscc/img/DASH-full-small.jpg)

Download the WSCC Model pdf icon[PDF - 1 page]

Learn how The Whole School, Whole Community, Whole Child (WSCC) Model informs,
HIV, STD, and pregnancy prevention

### Getting Started with the WSCC Model

ASCD offers a web page with information on how to start implementing the WSCC
modelexternal icon and a 15-minute School Improvement Tool needs assessment
surveyexternal icon to help guide your activities.

Definition of Model

Five Youth Tenets

Youth are at the center of the WSCC model. This ensures that the model's focus
is on keeping youth healthy, safe, engaged, supported, and challenged--
outcomes that schools, teachers, health professionals, families, and
communities value.

Open All Close All

Healthy

Each student enters school healthy and learns about and practices a healthy
lifestyle.

![DASH-healthy](/healthyyouth/wscc/img/DASH-healthy.jpg)

Safe

Each student learns in an environment that is physically and emotionally safe
for students and adults.

![DASH-safe](/healthyyouth/wscc/img/DASH-safe.jpg)

Engaged

Each student is actively engaged in learning and is connected to the school
and broader community.

![DASH-engaged](/healthyyouth/wscc/img/DASH-engaged.png)

Supported

Each student has access to personalized learning and is supported by
qualified, caring adults.

![DASH-supported](/healthyyouth/wscc/img/DASH-supported.png)

Challenged

Each student is challenged academically and prepared for success in college or
further study and for employment.

![DASH-challenged](/healthyyouth/wscc/img/DASH-challenged.jpg)

Top of Page

#### Coordination Ring

Surrounding the child is a ring that stresses the need for coordination of
school policies, processes, and practices. The coordination ring depicts the
critical role of day-to-day practices and processes as well as the essential
role of policy in sustaining a school environment supportive of both health
and learning.

![DASH-coord-ring](/healthyyouth/wscc/img/DASH-coord-ring.jpg)

Top of Page

Open All Close All

### School Components

Health Education

When provided by qualified, trained teachers, health education helps students
acquire the knowledge, attitudes, and skills they need for making healthy
decisions.

![DASH-health-education](/healthyyouth/wscc/img/DASH-health-education.png)

Physical Education & Physical Activity

Physical education helps students develop motor skills, knowledge, and
behaviors.

![DASH-phys-education-activity](/healthyyouth/wscc/img/DASH-phys-education-
activity.png)

Nutrition Environment & Services

School nutrition services provide students with opportunities to learn about
and practice healthy eating.

![DASH-nutrition-env](/healthyyouth/wscc/img/DASH-nutrition-env.png)

Health Services

School health services provide first aid, emergency care, and assessment of
and planning for chronic conditions. In addition, services provide wellness
promotion, referral to prevention services (such as HIV testing), and student
and parent education. The services also ensure access or referrals to outside
health care providers.

![DASH-health-services](/healthyyouth/wscc/img/DASH-health-services.png)

Counseling, Psychological, & Social Services

These prevention and intervention services support the mental, behavioral,
social, and emotional health of students. Services include a broad range of
assessments, counseling and consultation, and referrals to school and
community support services.

![DASH-counseling-psychological-social](/healthyyouth/wscc/img/DASH-
counseling-psychological-social.png)

Social & Emotional Climate

A positive social and emotional school climate is conducive to effective
teaching and learning. The school climate can affect student engagement in
school activities; relationships with other students, staff, family, and
community; health and growth; and academic performance.

![DASH-social-emotional-climate](/healthyyouth/wscc/img/DASH-social-emotional-
climate.png)

Physical Environment

A healthy and safe physical school environment promotes learning by ensuring
the health and safety of students and staff.

![DASH-physical-env](/healthyyouth/wscc/img/DASH-physical-env.png)

Employee Wellness

Fostering the physical and mental health of school employees protects school
staff and, by doing so, helps to support students' health and academic
success. Healthy school employees are more productive and less likely to be
absent.

![DASH-employee-wellness](/healthyyouth/wscc/img/DASH-employee-wellness.png)

Family Engagement

Families and school staff work together to support and improve students'
learning, development, and health.

![DASH-family-engagement](/healthyyouth/wscc/img/DASH-family-engagement.png)

Community Involvement

Community groups and local businesses can create partnerships with schools,
share resources, and volunteer to support student learning and health-related
activities. Schools, students, and their families can contribute to the
community through student learning and by sharing school facilities with
community members.

![DASH-community-involvement](/healthyyouth/wscc/img/DASH-community-
involvement.png)

Top of Page

### Community

Although the school may be a hub, it remains a reflection of its community and
requires community input, resources, and collaboration to support its
students. The WSCC model reflects greater alignment and integration between
health and education. Partnerships and collaboration with community agencies
are essential to helping schools secure the resources and support necessary to
implement the model.

![DASH-community](/healthyyouth/wscc/img/DASH-community.jpg)

Top of Page

Resources

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Learn more about the WSCC model in the  Journal of School Health special issue,external icon in this fact sheetpdf icon, and on CDC's Virtual Healthy School web page.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC's School Health Index is a tool schools can use to improve school health and safety policies and programs.

Learn how The Whole School, Whole Community, Whole Child (WSCC) Model informs,
HIV, STD, and pregnancy prevention

References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. Hunt, H. (ed.). The Whole School, Whole Community, Whole Child Model. [Special issue]. J Sch Health. 2015 Nov;85(11):729-823.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2. Council of Chief State School Officers. Policy Statement on School Health. 2004.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3. National School Boards Association. Beliefs and Policies of the National School Boards Association. 2017 [cited 2018 Feb 20]. https://cdn-files.nsba.org/s3fs-public/2017_Beliefs_&_Policies_Adopted_by_DA-3-24-17.pdf pdf iconexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4. American Association of School Administrators. AASA position statements. Position statement 3: Getting children ready for success in school, July 2006; Position statement 18: Providing safe and nurturing environment for children. July 2007 [2018 Feb 20]. http://www.aasa.org/uploadedFiles/About/_files/AASAPositionStatements072408.pdf pdf iconexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5. ASCD. Making the Case for Educating the Whole Child. 2012 [2018 Feb 20]. http://www.wholechildeducation.org/assets/content/mx-resources/WholeChild-MakingTheCase.pdf pdf iconexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. School Health Index: A Self-Assessment and Planning Guide. Middle School/High School. 2017 [2018 Feb 20]. https://www.cdc.gov/healthyschools/shi/pdf/Middle-High-Total-2017.pdfpdf icon [PDF - 1.9MB]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. School Health Index: A Self-Assessment and Planning Guide. Elementary School. 2017 [2018 Feb 20]. https://www.cdc.gov/healthyschools/shi/pdf/Elementary-Total-2017.pdfpdf icon [PDF - 2.7MB]

Page last reviewed: October 15, 2018

Content source: Division of Adolescent and School Health, National Center for
HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

home DASH Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About DASHplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * At A Glance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Why Schools?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Health: What Works In Schoolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Safe and Supportive School Environments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youth HIV, STD & Pregnancy Prevention Program Impact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Calendar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Contact DASH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Adolescent and School Health Policyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * DASH Partner Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policy Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Policy Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State School-Based Health Education Law Summary Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Data By Topicplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nutrition, Physical Activity, & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Profilesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Map & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Requesting Data Files
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SHPPSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * YRBSSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Maps & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Trends Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * NYPANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Disparitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Addressing Health and Educational Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Considerations for LGBTQ Youthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Protective Factors for LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Health Disparities Among LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Terminology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Survey of Todayâs Adolescent Relationships and Transitions (START)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funded Areasplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Notice of Funding Opportunities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Local Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded State Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Territorial Agency and Tribal Nation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded NGOs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Protective Factorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parent Engagement in Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Positive Parenting Practices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Services for Teensplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Condom Availability Programs (CAPs)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: In Brief
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: Things to Consider
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * High-Risk Substance Use Among Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sexual Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Evaluationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Evaluations of Innovative Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Additional Evaluation Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health & Academicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Anti-Bullying Policies and Enumeration: An Infobrief for Local Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How the WSCC Model Informs HIV, STD, and Pregnancy Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Whole School, Whole Community, Whole Child (WSCC) Model
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * GYT: Get Yourself Tested for High Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Curriculum Analysis Tool (HECAT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HECAT FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Teacher Training Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Publications, Registries, and Other Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Registries of Programs Effective in Reducing Youth Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * NYHAAD Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * HIV Information and Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Portrait Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Buttons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Palm Cards & Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specific Audiencesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Planning for Program Success
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Grants Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Program Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reporting Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parents

**Error processing SSI file**  

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

