

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Adolescent and School Health

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Funded Non-governmental Organizations (NGOs)

Minus

Related Pages

The following non-governmental organizations (NGOs) receive funding from CDC's
Division of Adolescent and School Health to provide intensive technical
assistance and capacity-building support to local and state education agencies
to improve health and educational outcomes among children and adolescents.

**Technical Assistance and Capacity Building**

CDC funding is used to provide intensive technical assistance and capacity-
building support for education agencies in one of four approaches:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1. strengthening the effectiveness of instructional materials and their delivery;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2. strengthening the effectiveness of health services initiatives that reduce HIV infection and other STDs;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3. strengthening the effectiveness of initiatives to create and maintain safe and supportive environments in schools; and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4. addressing policy and practice in state education agencies.

Open All Close All

### Agency contact information and program descriptions

Advocates for Youth (AFY)

Advocates for Youth receives funding from CDC's Division of Adolescent and
School Health to:

Provide training, follow-up support, and technical assistance to local
education agency partners to build their ability to (1) strengthen the
effectiveness of instructional materials (guided by a scope and sequence that
reflects essential knowledge and skills for reducing sexual risk behaviors
within the context of a high-quality health education program), and (2)
strengthen instructional delivery in classrooms.

Provide training, follow-up support, and technical assistance to local
education agency partners to build their ability to strengthen the
effectiveness of sexual health services required activities.

**Location:**

Washington, DC

**Contacts:**

Jennifer Augustine  
Principal Investigator

Brittany McBride  
Program Manager (3A)

Mary Beth Szydlowski  
Program Manager (3B)

**Website:**

https://advocatesforyouth.org/external icon

American Academy of Pediatrics

American Academy of Pediatrics receives funding from CDC's Division of
Adolescent and School Health to:

Provide training, follow-up support, and technical assistance to local
education agency partners to build their ability to strengthen the
effectiveness of sexual health services required activities.

**Location:**

Itasca, IL

**Contacts:**

Stephanie Domain  
Principal Investigator

Gretchen Niemann  
Program Manager

**Website:**

https://www.aap.orgexternal icon

American Psychological Association (APA)

American Psychological Association receives funding from CDC's Division of
Adolescent and School Health to:

Provide leadership and technical support to LEA partners to strengthen their
work to establish and maintain safe and supportive school environments in
schools, especially for youth at highest risk of HIV infection and other STD.

**Location:**

Washington, DC

**Contacts:**

Clinton Anderson  
Principal Investigator

David P DeVito  
Program Director

**Website:**

http://www.apa.orgexternal icon

Children's Hospital Los Angeles

Children's Hospital Los Angeles receives funding from CDC's Division of
Adolescent and School Health to:

Provide leadership and technical support to local education agency partners to
strengthen their work to establish and maintain safe and supportive school
environments in schools, especially for youth at highest risk of HIV infection
and other STD.

**Location:**

Los Angeles, CA

**Contacts:**

Mia Humphreys  
Principal Investigator

**Website:**

https://www.chla.orgexternal icon

Child Trends Incorporated

Child Trends Incorporated receives funding from CDC's Division of Adolescent
and School Health to:

Increase the capacity of multi-sector, state-level leadership teams to assess
and coordinate model policy development and implementation at the state and
local levels.

**Location:**

Bethesda, MD

**Contacts:**

Brandon Stratford  
Principal Investigator

Dominique Parris  
Program Manager

**Website:**

https://www.childtrends.orgexternal icon

National Coalition of STD Directors (NCSD)

National Coalition of STD Directors receives funding from CDC's Division of
Adolescent and School Health to:

Increase the capacity of multi-sector, state-level leadership teams to assess
and coordinate model policy development and implementation at the state and
local levels.

**Location:**

Washington, DC

**Contacts:**

Amanda Dennison  
Principal Investigator

Sara Stahlberg  
Program Manager

**Website:**

http://www.ncsddc.orgexternal icon

Page last reviewed: November 5, 2018

Content source: Division of Adolescent and School Health, National Center for
HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

home DASH Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About DASHplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * At A Glance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Why Schools?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Health: What Works In Schoolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Safe and Supportive School Environments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youth HIV, STD & Pregnancy Prevention Program Impact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Calendar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Contact DASH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Adolescent and School Health Policyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * DASH Partner Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policy Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Policy Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State School-Based Health Education Law Summary Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Data By Topicplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nutrition, Physical Activity, & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Profilesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Map & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Requesting Data Files
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SHPPSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * YRBSSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Maps & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Trends Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * NYPANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Disparitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Addressing Health and Educational Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Considerations for LGBTQ Youthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Protective Factors for LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Health Disparities Among LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Terminology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Survey of Todayâs Adolescent Relationships and Transitions (START)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funded Areasplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Notice of Funding Opportunities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Local Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded State Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Territorial Agency and Tribal Nation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded NGOs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Protective Factorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parent Engagement in Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Positive Parenting Practices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Services for Teensplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Condom Availability Programs (CAPs)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: In Brief
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: Things to Consider
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * High-Risk Substance Use Among Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sexual Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Evaluationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Evaluations of Innovative Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Additional Evaluation Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health & Academicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Anti-Bullying Policies and Enumeration: An Infobrief for Local Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How the WSCC Model Informs HIV, STD, and Pregnancy Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Whole School, Whole Community, Whole Child (WSCC) Model
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * GYT: Get Yourself Tested for High Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Curriculum Analysis Tool (HECAT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HECAT FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Teacher Training Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Publications, Registries, and Other Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Registries of Programs Effective in Reducing Youth Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * NYHAAD Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * HIV Information and Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Portrait Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Buttons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Palm Cards & Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specific Audiencesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Planning for Program Success
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Grants Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Program Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reporting Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parents

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

