

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Adolescent and School Health

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Sexual Risk Behaviors Can Lead to HIV, STDs, & Teen Pregnancy

Minus

Related Pages

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Half of all new STDs reported each year are **among young people 15 to 24**.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * More than 46% of sexually active high school students **did not use a condom** the last time they had sex.1

## Many Young People Engage in Sexual Risk Behaviors

![diverse group of teens in school
hallway](/healthyyouth/images/Classroom-7_350x225-small.jpg)

Many young people engage in sexual risk behaviors and experiences that can
result in unintended health outcomes.

CDC data show that lesbian, gay, and bisexual high school students are at
substantial risk for serious health outcomes as compared to their peers.

### Among U.S. **high school students** surveyed in 20171

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 40% had ever had sexual intercourse.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 10% had four or more sexual partners.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 7% had been physically forced to have sexual intercourse when they did not want to.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * 30% had had sexual intercourse during the previous 3 months, and, of these 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 46% did not use a condom the last time they had sex.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 14% did not use any method to prevent pregnancy.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 19% had drunk alcohol or used drugs before last sexual intercourse.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Less than 10% of all students have ever been tested for HIV.

**_Source:_** _National Youth Risk Behavior Survey, 2017_

badge icon

CDC recommends everyone aged 13-64 get tested for HIV at least once as part of
routine medical care.5,6

## HIV, STDs, and Teen Pregnancy are Health Consequences

Sexual risk behaviors place youth at risk for HIV infection, other STDs, and
unintended pregnancy:

### HIV

 **21% of all new HIV diagnoses** were among young people (aged 13-24) in
2018; 87% were young men and 13% were young women.2

![red_ribbon_watercolor](/healthyyouth/sexualbehaviors/images/red_ribbon_watercolor.png)

### STDs

 **Half of the 20 million new STDs** reported each year were among young
people (aged 15 to 24)3

![group_silhouette_watercolor](/healthyyouth/sexualbehaviors/images/group_silhouette_watercolor.png)

Teen Pregnancy

 **Nearly 180,000 babies** were born to teen girls (aged 15-19 years) in
2018.4

![pregnant_silhouette_watercolor](/healthyyouth/sexualbehaviors/images/pregnant_silhouette_watercolor.png)

Abstinence from vaginal, anal, and oral intercourse is the only 100% effective
way to prevent HIV, other STDs, and pregnancy. The correct and consistent use
of male latex condoms can reduce the risk of STD transmission, including HIV
infection. However, no protective method is 100% effective, and condom use
cannot guarantee absolute protection against any STD or pregnancy.

## Schools and Youth Serving Organizations Can Help

School health programs can help young people adopt lifelong attitudes and
behaviors that support their health and well-being--including behaviors that
can reduce their risk for HIV and other STDs.

HIV, STD, and teen pregnancy prevention programs in schools should

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Provide health information that is basic, accurate, and directly contributes to health-promoting decisions and behaviors.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Address the needs of youth who are not having sex as well as youth who are currently sexually active.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ensure that all youth are provided with effective education and skills to protect themselves and others from HIV infection, other STDs, and pregnancy.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Be developed with the active involvement of students and parents.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Be locally determined and consistent with community values and relevant policies.

The National HIV/AIDS Strategyexternal icon calls for all Americans to be
educated about HIV. This includes knowing how HIV is transmitted and
prevented, and knowing which behaviors place individuals at greatest risk for
infection. HIV awareness and education pdf icon[PDF - 70 pages] should be
universally integrated into all educational environments.

## CDC Programs & Initiatives

The prevalence of some health behaviors remains high and puts youth at higher
risk for negative health outcomes and poor academic performance. CDC's
Division of Adolescent and School Health addresses HIV, other STDs, and
unintended pregnancy prevention through

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data collection and analysis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Science-based guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding to state and local departments of education and national nongovernmental organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Successful state and local interventions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Partnerships

### Resources and Strategies for Preventing Sexual Risk Behavior Among Youth

#### Fact Sheets

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How CDC Prepares Healthy Youth for Successful Futures pdf icon[PDF - 2 pages]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Substance Use and Sexual Risk Behaviors Among Youth pdf icon[PDF - 2 pages]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * It's your future. You can protect it. (Know Your Condom Dos & Don'ts) pdf icon[PDF - 4 pages]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What Works In Schools

#### HIV and STD Testing

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Get Tested: National HIV and STD Testing Resource
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Get Yourself Tested Campaign: STD Awareness Resource
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How Schools Can Support HIV Testing Among Adolescents pdf icon[PDF - 2 pages]

#### Science-Based Strategies

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Education Curriculum Analysis Tool (HECAT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Registries of Programs Effective in Reducing Youth Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Compendium of Evidence-Based Interventions and Best Practices for HIV Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Protective Factors

#### Other Federal Websites

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) - Drugs + HIV > Learn the Linkexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * HHS Office of Adolescent Health - Teen Pregnancy Preventionexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * HHS Administration on Children, Youth and Families (ACYF)external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * HIV.govexternal icon

#### Social Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Follow CDC_DASH on Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Healthy Youth Pinterest board
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * HIV/AIDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * STD Testing

#### Additional CDC resources and guidance documents are available here:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Viral Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tuberculosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC Stacks

References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. CDC. Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance--United States, 2017. _MMWR Surveill Summ_ 2018;67(No. SS-8).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2. CDC. Diagnoses of HIV infection in the United States and dependent areas, 2018.pdf icon _HIV Surveillance Report 2018 (Preliminary)_ 2019;30.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3. CDC. Sexually Transmitted Disease Surveillance 2016.pdf iconAtlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; 2017.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4. Martin JA, Hamilton BE, Osterman MJK, Driscoll AK. Births: Final data for 2018. National Vital Statistics Reports; vol 68, no 13.pdf icon Hyattsville, MD: National Center for Health Statistics. 2019.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5. Final Update Summary: Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) Infection: Screening.external icon U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. November 2018.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6. CDC.  Revised recommendations for HIV testing of adults, adolescents, and pregnant women in health-care settings. _MMWR_ 2006;55:1-17.

Page last reviewed: March 25, 2020

Content source: Division of Adolescent and School Health, National Center for
HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

home DASH Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About DASHplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * At A Glance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Why Schools?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Health: What Works In Schoolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Safe and Supportive School Environments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youth HIV, STD & Pregnancy Prevention Program Impact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Calendar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Contact DASH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Adolescent and School Health Policyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * DASH Partner Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policy Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Policy Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State School-Based Health Education Law Summary Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Data By Topicplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nutrition, Physical Activity, & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Profilesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Map & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Requesting Data Files
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SHPPSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * YRBSSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Maps & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Trends Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * NYPANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Disparitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Addressing Health and Educational Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Considerations for LGBTQ Youthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Protective Factors for LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Health Disparities Among LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Terminology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Survey of Todayâs Adolescent Relationships and Transitions (START)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funded Areasplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Notice of Funding Opportunities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Local Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded State Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Territorial Agency and Tribal Nation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded NGOs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Protective Factorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parent Engagement in Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Positive Parenting Practices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Services for Teensplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Condom Availability Programs (CAPs)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: In Brief
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: Things to Consider
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * High-Risk Substance Use Among Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sexual Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Evaluationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Evaluations of Innovative Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Additional Evaluation Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health & Academicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Anti-Bullying Policies and Enumeration: An Infobrief for Local Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How the WSCC Model Informs HIV, STD, and Pregnancy Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Whole School, Whole Community, Whole Child (WSCC) Model
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * GYT: Get Yourself Tested for High Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Curriculum Analysis Tool (HECAT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HECAT FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Teacher Training Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Publications, Registries, and Other Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Registries of Programs Effective in Reducing Youth Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * NYHAAD Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * HIV Information and Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Portrait Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Buttons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Palm Cards & Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specific Audiencesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Planning for Program Success
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Grants Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Program Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reporting Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parents

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Related CDC Sites

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Adolescents and STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Healthy Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * HIV/AIDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * HIV Among Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LGBTQ Youth Programs-At-A-Glance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Project Connect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sexual Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * STD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Teen Pregnancy

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

