

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Adolescent and School Health

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Funded Local Education Agencies

Minus

Related Pages

The following local education agencies receive funding from CDC's Division of
Adolescent and School Health for school-based HIV/STD prevention and school-
based surveillance.

**School-based HIV Prevention**

CDC funding is used to work with schools to implement school-based programs
and practices designed to reduce HIV and other STDs among adolescents,
including strengthening sexual health education (SHE), increasing adolescent
access to key sexual health services (SHS), and establishing safe and
supportive environments (SSE) for students.

**School-based Surveillance**

CDC funding is used to conduct school-based surveillance on youth risk
behaviors and school health policies and practices.

## Map of Local Education Agencies

![map of the continental United States displaying local education agencies
funded for HIV/STD Prevention
programs](/healthyyouth/images/maps/1807_hiv_funding_map-medium.jpg)

Open All Close All

### Agency contact information and program descriptions

Albuquerque Public Schools (NM)

**Albuquerque Public Schools** currently reaches approximately **42,000**
middle and high school students to focus on implementation of the following
activities to reduce HIV and other STDs:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Develop lessons for middle and high school health education classes to ensure that quality sexual health education is based on best-practices, aligned to the district's scope and sequence as well as the National Sexuality Education Standards, and is consistent across the district.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Create student-led marketing campaigns to help students understand services offered, how to access services, and increase access to school-based health centers.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Collaborate with partners to implement the district's _Safe Zone_ program, which trains staff to provide a welcoming, supportive and safe environment for LGBTQ youth. Every middle and high school has a designated coordinator who receives annual training and technical assistance.

**Location:**

Albuquerque, NM

**Contacts:**

Kristine Meurer  
Principal Investigator

Angela Fielden  
Program Manager

Laura Morris  
Program Manager

Allison Poccia  
Program Manager

**Website:**

http://www.aps.edu/external icon

Boston Public Schools (MA)

**Boston Public Schools** currently reaches approximately **27,300** middle
and high school students to focus on the implementation of the following
activities to reduce HIV and other STDs:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Implement a Wellness Policy to support comprehensive health education inclusive of sexual health education (SHE), with the curriculum modified as needed for students with disabilities and limited English proficiency.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Foster health literacy and student wellness through sexual health services that include school-based condom accessibility teams (CATs), appropriate counseling, referrals for services, and where available, resources from school-based health centers.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Provide resources for school-based staff and community partners to support LGBTQ students.

**Location:**

Boston, MA

**Contacts:**

Jill Carter  
Principal Investigator

Felicia Simmons  
Program Manager

**Website:**

https://www.bostonpublicschools.orgexternal icon

Broward County Public Schools (FL)

**Broward County Public Schools** currently reaches approximately **122,100**
middle and high school students to focus on implementation of the following
activities to reduce HIV and other STDs by:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Provide train-the-trainer professional development to address teacher knowledge, comfort, and instructional competencies necessary to effectively implement the _Family Life and Human Sexuality_ curriculum.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Collaborate with the local health department and community-based organizations to provide monthly HIV/STD screenings in the priority high schools.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Create videos offering tips to strengthen parents and caregivers efforts to positively engage with their teens and to have meaningful discussions with them about sex.

**Location:**

Broward County, FL

**Contacts:**

David Watkins  
Principal Investigator

Sebrina James  
Program Manager

**Website:**

https://www.browardschools.comexternal icon

Chicago Public Schools (IL)

**Chicago Public Schools** currently reaches approximately **175,000** middle
and high school students through the following activities to reduce HIV and
other STDs:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Train instructors on the updated K-12 curriculum based on the National Sexuality Education Standards, and offer supporting resources including the Sexual Health Education Toolkit, Sexual Health Services Toolkit, Supporting Gender Diversity Toolkit and the Instructor Guide to LGBTQ+-Inclusive Sexual Health Education.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Work to increase access to sexual health services referrals by supporting staff in making referrals using the Chicago Sexual Health Services Toolkit and raise awareness of the legal rights of students ages 12 and up to access care.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Provide teachers and administrators with guidance on supporting LGBTQ+ students, translating the LGBTQ+ sexual health education instructor guide, and ensure student records systems are updated to provide greater inclusion for transgender and non-binary students.

**Location:**

Chicago, IL

**Contacts:**

Tarrah DeClemente  
Principal Investigator

Emily Fishman  
Program Manager

Kat Ramirez-Mercado  
Program Manager

Booker Marshall  
Program Manager

**Website:**

https://cps.eduexternal icon

Cleveland Municipal School District (OH)

**Cleveland Municipal School District** currently reaches approximately
**13,500** middle and high school students to focus on implementation of the
following activities to reduce HIV and other STDs:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Collaborate with Advocates for Youth to develop and approve a health education scope and sequence document that delineates sexual health education outcomes in both middle and high schools.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Provide professional development events annually to district staff to support the provision of sexual health services.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Establish and enhance student-led clubs including Gay-Straight Alliances (GSAs) that support sexual and gender minority youth through fostering collaboration between middle and high school GSAs and local LGBTQ-youth serving organizations.

**Location:**

Cleveland, OH

**Contacts:**

Sharon Stevens  
Principal Investigator/Program Manager

**Website:**

http://clevelandmetroschools.orgexternal icon

District of Columbia Public Schools

The **District of Columbia Public Schools** currently reaches approximately
**20,200** middle and high school students to focus on implementation of the
following activities to reduce HIV and other STDs:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Develop, update, and foster the use of teaching tools and resources for the sexual health education instructional program.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Assess students' access to sexual health services by conducting interviews with staff from school-based health centers to determine best practices for increasing student enrollment and the challenges to services by school-based health centers.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Increase student-led clubs including Gay-Straight Alliances (GSAs) that support sexual and gender minority youth through professional development for campus-based LGBTQ liaisons throughout the district.

**Location:**

Washington, DC

**Contacts:**

Wesley Thomas  
Principal Investigator/Program Manager

**Website:**

https://dcps.dc.govexternal icon

Duval County Public Schools (FL)

**Duval County Public Schools** currently reaches approximately **55,000**
middle and high school students to focus on implementation of the following
activities to reduce HIV and other STDs:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Conduct sexual health education in all middle and high schools across the districts. _Draw the Line/Respect the Line_ curriculum is taught in middle schools and _Reducing the Risk_ is a supplement to the core Health Opportunities and Physical Education curriculum and is taught in high schools.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Work through a community partnership to provide chlamydia, gonorrhea, HIV testing and linkage to treatment at on-site Teen Health Centers.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Provide support to students by establishing and enhancing Genders and Sexualities Alliances (GSA) clubs in middle and high schools across the district in collaboration with Jacksonville Area Sexual Minority Youth Network (JASMYN).

**Location:**

Duval County, FL

**Contacts:**

Heather Crowley  
Principal Investigator

Tiffany Wells  
Program Manager

**Website:**

http://duvalschools.orgexternal icon

Eaton Regional Education Service Agency (MI)

**Eaton Regional Education Service Agency** currently reaches approximately
**12,800** middle and high school students to focus on the implementation of
the following activities to reduce HIV and other STDs:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Support districts in developing, updating, and fostering the use of electronic teaching tools and resources for teachers to continuously improve the delivery of the sexual health education instructional program and to standardize sexual health education processes.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Develop a local referral guide to include youth and LGBTQIA+ friendly resources in the community and a referral system to increase student access to sexual health services.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Provide professional development to all school staff on supporting LGBT youth, and building capacity and sustainability within the district to provide additional training through train-the-trainer opportunities.

**Location:**

Charlotte, MI

**Contacts:**

Kim Thalison  
Principal Investigator

Christina Holmes  
Program Manager

**Website:**

http://www.eatonresa.orgexternal icon

Ft. Worth Independent School District (TX)

**Fort Worth Independent School District** currently reaches approximately
**40,000** middle and high school students to focus on implementation of the
following activities to reduce HIV and other STDs:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Implement a technical assistance plan that incorporates teacher observations, instructional approaches, assessment strategies, and coaching and peer mentoring as it relates to health education teaching methods.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Improve the district's sexual health services referral system by maintaining and distributing online and hard copies of a current list of community providers for school nurses and intervention specialists.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Distribute resources to parents annually through the provision of _HealthSmart_ curriculum resources for parents. This resource will be made available to parents in both English and Spanish.

**Location:**

Ft. Worth, TX

**Contacts:**

Georgie Roberts  
Principal Investigator

Brooke Sharples  
Program Manager

**Website:**

https://www.fwisd.orgexternal icon

Gaston County Schools (NC)

**Gaston County Schools** currently reaches approximately **15,900** middle
and high school students to focus on implementation of the following
activities to reduce HIV and other STDs:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Works with their School Health Advisory Council (SHAC) to develop a list of health and sexual health education instructional competencies.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Incorporate access to sexual health services into sexual health education by including community provider visits to the classroom and providing students with information on youth-friendly clinics and resources.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Establish and enhancing student-led clubs, including Gay-Straight Alliances or Genders and Sexualities Alliances (GSAs) that support LGBTQ youth and providing resources to GSA advisors.

**Location:**

Gaston County, NC

**Contacts:**

Chad Duncan  
Principal Investigator

Sandie Rudisill  
Program Manager

**Website:**

https://www.gaston.k12.nc.usexternal icon

Genesee Intermediate School District (MI)

**Genesee Intermediate School District** currently reaches approximately
**10,200** middle and high school students to focus on implementation of the
following activities to reduce HIV and other STDs:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Provide annual training for teachers to increase knowledge and comfort teaching sexual health education.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Collaborate with the county health department to develop a referral system to link sexually active youth to sexual health services as well as increase school based STI screenings.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Provide professional development using the Michigan Department of Education adopted program _A Silent Crisis: Creating Safe and Supportive Schools for Sexual Minority Youth_ for school staff to build awareness and safe environments for LGBTQ+ students.

**Location:**

Genesee County, MI

**Contacts:**

James Yake  
Principal Investigator

**Website:**

https://geneseeisd.orgexternal icon

Hillsborough County Public Schools (FL)

**Hillsborough County Public Schools** currently reaches approximately
**102,500** middle and high school students to focus on implementation of the
following activities to reduce HIV and other STDs:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Improve the district's sexual health curriculum using current research, theory, and the _Health Education Curriculum Analysis Tool_ (HECAT).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Collaborate with community partners to create a youth resource directory for sexual health services to improve adolescent access via referrals.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Provide _Implicit Bias_ training to district staff and establish and enhance Genders and Sexualities Alliances (GSA), leveraging the Social Emotional Learning (SEL) Coordinator's resources to incorporate SEL into classroom management.

**Location:**

Hillsborough County, FL

**Contacts:**

Ashlee Cappucci  
Principal Investigator/Project Director

Lauren Woodward  
Program Manager

**Website:**

https://sdhc.k12.fl.usexternal icon

Houston Independent School District (TX)

**Houston Independent School District** currently reaches approximately
**96,800** middle and high school students to focus on implementation of the
following activities to reduce HIV and other STD's:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Provide secondary health education teachers with resources and materials to support facilitating skills-based instruction, addressing challenges, and integrating digital resources into sexual health education classrooms.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Train school staff and nurses on the district's sexual health education referral system procedures to improve student access and use of school-based health clinics.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Partner with local community agencies to create a safe space marketing campaign for all students inclusive of LGBT.

**Location:**

Houston, TX

**Contacts:**

Felicia Ceaser-White  
Principal Investigator

Chante' Gary  
Program Manager

Ida Hood  
Program Manager

**Website:**

https://www.houstonisd.orgexternal icon

Los Angeles Unified School District (CA)

**Los Angeles Unified School District** currently reaches approximately
**347,000** middle and high school students to focus on implementation of the
following activities to reduce HIV and other STDs by:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Conduct a 90-hour, comprehensive, and inclusive sexual health curriculum taught by credentialed health teachers in seventh and ninth grades.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Implement a social media platform for secondary schools called _Project U Los Angeles (PULA)_ that offers health information that is medically accurate, current, and inclusive. PULA allows for a peer-to-peer participatory model through youth summits that provide a campaign toolkit and training workshops for students on action planning and finding their voice on campus.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Affirm LGBTQ+ youth through the _Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity, and Gender Expression (SOGIE)_ Project to develop safe and supportive environments on school campuses. The District has a three-prong approach for LGBTQ+ youth through instruction and curriculum, equity compliance, and intervention and counseling.

**Location:**

Los Angeles, CA

**Contacts:**

Tim Kordic  
Principal Investigator/Program Manager

**Website:**

https://achieve.lausd.netexternal icon

Metropolitan Nashville Public Schools (TN)

**Metropolitan Nashville Public Schools** currently reaches approximately
**13,000** middle and high school students to focus on implementation of the
following activities to reduce HIV and other STDs:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Identify and approve a list of instructional competencies for those teaching health and sexual health education.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Assess capacity to implement activities for increasing students' access to sexual health services through the use of high school and college-age "secret shoppers" who will determine the community's capacity and ability to access youth-friendly providers.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Establish and enhance student-led clubs including Gay-Straight Alliances or Genders and Sexualities Alliances (GSAs) that support LGBTQ students.

**Location:**

Nashville, TN

**Contacts:**

Megan Cusson-Lark  
Principal Investigator

Tina Bozeman  
Project Director

**Website:**

https://www.mnps.orgexternal icon

New York City Department of Education (NY)

**New York City Department of Education** currently reaches approximately
**17,000** middle and high students to focus on the implementation of the
following activities to reduce HIV and other STDs:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Develop a middle and high school health education scope and sequence, including an implementation guide with supplemental lessons and instructional materials and resources.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Improve the quality of NYC's Condom Availability Program (CAP) through targeted outreach, professional development, and support for CAP-trained school staff.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Increase the capacity of schools and school staff to ensure safe and supportive school environments for students through professional development and support for Genders and Sexualities Alliances (GSAs).

**Location:**

New York, NY

**Contacts:**

Lindsey Harr  
Principal Investigator

Jennifer Paulino  
Program Manager

**Website:**

https://www.schools.nyc.govexternal icon

Newark Board of Education (NJ)

**Newark Board of Education** currently services approximately **19,000**
middle and high school students and is implementing the following activities
to reduce HIV and other STDs:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Implement a uniform sexual health education curriculum district-wide.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Assess all relevant school and community health resources to develop an effective student health referral system in collaboration with the Jewish Renaissance Medical Center.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ensure that all school staff receive training to establish and maintain safe and supportive school environments for LGBTQ and all Newark students.

**Location:**

Newark, NJ

**Contacts:**

Michelina Thornton  
Principal Investigator

Deborah Jennings  
Program Manager

**Website:**

http://www.nps.k12.nj.usexternal icon

Oakland Unified School District (CA)

**Oakland Unified School District** (OUSD) currently reaches approximately
**10,300** middle and high school students and is implementing the following
activities to reduce HIV and other STDs:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Conduct and evaluate the Healthy Oakland Teens Curriculum which provides sexual health education lessons in the sixth, seventh, and ninth grade, including annual professional development for new teachers.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Identify, train, and support an on-site referral coordinator to ensure that all students are connected to a school-based health clinic either on their campus or a nearby campus.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Support LGBTQ students through Gender and Sexuality Alliances (GSAs), faculty and staff professional development, and the identification of LGBTQ adult ally liaisons on all middle and high school campuses.

**Location:**

Oakland, CA

**Contacts:**

Mara Larsen-Fleming  
Principal Investigator

Ilsa Bertolini  
Program Manager

**Website:**

https://www.ousd.orgexternal icon

Pasco County Schools (FL)

**Pasco County Schools** currently reaches approximately **36,000** middle and
high school students to focus on the implementation of the following
activities to reduce HIV and other STDs:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facilitate the implementation of a scope and sequence for the revised health opportunities through the physical education _(HOPE) Core_ curriculum for high school students. Students will receive sexual health education in a 6th grade health course. Students in 7th and 8th grades will participate in a ten-day unit called "Human Growth and Development" that focuses primarily on sexual health education.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Collaborate to increase student access to sexual health services between Pasco County Schools nurses and the local health department.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Conduct training for teachers and administrators to address the creation of a safe and supportive environment for all students with the Pasco County Schools LGBTQ Liaison.

**Location:**

Pasco County, FL

**Contacts:**

Matthew Wicks  
Principal Investigator

Antonio Emperator  
Program Manager

**Website:**

http://pasco.k12.fl.usexternal icon

Portland Public Schools (OR)

**Portland Public Schools** (PPS) currently reaches approximately **12,300**
high school students to focus on implementation of the following activities to
reduce HIV and other STDs:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Bring together high school leaders from the district to draw on teacher expertise and knowledge to support the implementation of quality sexuality education and ensure that teachers have the training, resources, and guidance they need to teach the selected curricula effectively.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Work with the Multnomah County Health Department and Oregon Health and Sciences University to improve the quality and quantity of sexual health services available for sexually active students.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Provide training and resources for all school staff, particularly faculty advisors and student leaders of Gay-Straight Alliances (GSAs) to create a more inclusive and supportive environment for all students.

**Location:**

Portland, OR

**Contacts:**

Jennifer Withycombe  
Principal Investigator

Alexandra (Lexie) Zimbelman  
Program Manager

**Website:**

https://www.pps.netexternal icon

San Diego Unified School District (CA)

**San Diego Unified School District** currently reaches approximately
**49,400** middle and high school students to focus on implementation of the
following activities to reduce HIV and other STDs by:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Provide professional development and guidance to increase teachers' knowledge, comfort, and confidence to deliver sexual health education (SHE) to all students. This includes providing Special Education teachers with SHE curricula designed specifically for students with special needs and best practices for modifying SHE lessons to accommodate different ability levels.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Improve the district's website to make sexual health services (SHS) more accessible for students, such as creating a web- and mobile-compatible interactive map to locate nearby SHS clinics searchable by location and various service categories.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Collaborate with the LGBTQIA+ Education and Advocacy Program to provide continued support for the district's Gay-Straight Alliances (GSA) clubs or LGBTQ-supportive clubs established in all 59 middle and high schools.

**Location:**

San Diego, CA

**Contacts:**

Rachel Miller  
Principal Investigator/Program Manager

**Website:**

https://www.sandiegounified.orgexternal icon

San Francisco Unified School District (CA)

**San Francisco Unified School District** currently reaches approximately
**25,500** middle and high school students to focus on implementation of the
following activities to reduce HIV and other STDs:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Develop professional development to increase teachers' knowledge, comfort, and confidence to effectively implement their locally developed curriculums _Be Real.  Be Ready._, for high school and _Healthy Me. Healthy Us_., for middle schools.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sustain a fully staffed wellness center at every high school that includes school social workers, school district nurses, and 50+ community based organization partners that provide free, coordinated health education, assessment, counseling, and other support services.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Increase adolescents' connectedness to their school by hosting Gay-Straight Alliances (GSA) clubs in all middle and high schools.

**Location:**

San Francisco, CA

**Contacts:**

Kim Coates  
Principal Investigator

Rosalia Lopez  
Program Manager

**Website:**

http://sfusd.eduexternal icon

School Board of Orange County (FL)

The **School Board of Orange County** currently reaches approximately
**100,900** traditional middle and high school students to focus on
implementation of the following activities to reduce HIV and other STDs:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Employ approved classroom presenters to model and co-teach lessons with sexual health education instructors in order to increase teacher comfort and confidence in teaching the sexual health curriculum.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Collaborate with Orange County Public Schools Health Services and the Florida Department of Health, Orange County to provide linkage to healthcare to increase student access to sexual health services. The program provides referrals to health department clinics and the Teen Xpress Clinics.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Provide district-approved _Youth Sensitivity_ training for district administrators, teachers, and other staff to increase student inclusivity and connectedness.

**Location:**

Orange County, FL

**Contacts:**

Brenda Christopher-Muench  
Principal Investigator

Michele Villegas  
Program Manager

**Website:**

https://ocps.netexternal icon

School Board of Palm Beach County (FL)

The **School District of Palm Beach County** (SDPBC) currently reaches
approximately **102,600** middle and high school students to focus on
implementation of the following activities to reduce HIV and other STDs:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Provide guidance and professional development to school staff regarding the _Human Growth and Development_ curriculum for all schools.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Partner with the Palm Beach County Health Care District to organize workshops that provide school nurses with updated information on how to link students to adolescent friendly sexual health services sites.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Develop guidance and professional development for all school staff on supporting LGBTQIA+ students through the _We 're ALL In!_ campaign. Expand support and materials for Gender and Sexuality Alliance (GSA) clubs in middle and high schools to increase school connectedness for all students.

**Location:**

Palm Beach County, FL

**Contacts:**

William "Pete" Stewart  
Principal Investigator/Program Manager

**Website:**

https://www.palmbeachschools.orgexternal icon

School District of Philadelphia (PA)

**School District of Philadelphia** currently reaches approximately **64,000**
middle and high school students to focus on implementation of the following
activities to reduce HIV and other STDs:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Conduct district wide implementation of the _Rights, Respect and Responsibility Comprehensive Sexual Health Education_ curriculum.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Support the development, implementation and expansion of a sexual health referral system to provide early and increased access to youth-friendly sexual health services.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Partner with school district staff and local LGBTQ groups to improve and increase Genders and Sexualities Alliances (GSAs), parent engagement activities, and staff competencies.

**Location:**

Philadelphia, PA

**Contacts:**

Jennifer Pitt  
Principal Investigator

Brittany Broaddus-Smith  
Program Manager

Taylor Harrigan  
Program Manager

**Website:**

https://www.philasd.orgexternal icon

Seattle Public Schools (WA)

**Seattle Public Schools** currently reaches approximately **13,000** high
school students and is implementing the following activities to reduce HIV and
other STDs:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Provide professional development for staff teaching sexual health education within the district-approved health education curriculum to ensure activities are skills-based, medically accurate, and age-appropriate.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ensure all school staff are aware of services available for students and how to refer them for care.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Train school nurses, administrators, and other staff on how to best support LGBTQ students.

**Location:**

Seattle, WA

**Contacts:**

Lisa Love  
Principal Investigator

**Website:**

http://seattleschools.orgexternal icon

Shelby County Schools (TN)

**Shelby County Schools** currently reaches approximately **12,000** middle
and high school students to focus on implementation of the following
activities to reduce HIV and other STDs:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Collaborate with the district's curriculum and instruction team to address teacher content knowledge, comfort, and instructional competences of health education teachers.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Collaborate with the Shelby County Health Department to host periodic HIV and STI testing events and linking students who test positive to treatment and follow-up services.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Leverage partnerships with Out Memphis, a community-based LGBT organization and the district's Office of Student Equity Enrollment and Discipline (S.E.E.D), to raise awareness of policies that support safe and supportive environments for all students. The project team is also working with school health councils to develop Genders and Sexualities Alliances (GSAs) in schools across the district.

**Location:**

Shelby County, TN

**Contacts:**

Roderick Richmond  
Principal Investigator

Sudie Cushman  
Program Manager

**Website:**

http://scsk12.orgexternal icon

Spartanburg County School District No. 7 (SC)

The **Spartanburg School District Consortium** (SSDC) currently reaches
approximately **13,400** middle and high school students and focuses on the
following strategies to reduce HIV and other STDs:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Implement age-appropriate evidence-based, sexual health education curricula, as determined by each district within the consortium.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Provide professional development through the University of South Carolina Upstate Child Protection Training Center for health education teachers and counselors in trauma-informed practices in order to create a community of resilient schools.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Use the _Connect Spartanburg_ online resource and referral system to promote sexual health information and adolescent-friendly clinical services.

**Location:**

Spartanburg County, SC

**Contacts:**

Terry Pruitt  
Principal Investigator

Lucy Willms  
Program Manager

**Website:**

https://www.spartanburg7.orgexternal icon

Page last reviewed: February 24, 2020

Content source: Division of Adolescent and School Health, National Center for
HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

home DASH Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About DASHplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * At A Glance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Why Schools?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Health: What Works In Schoolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Safe and Supportive School Environments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youth HIV, STD & Pregnancy Prevention Program Impact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Calendar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Contact DASH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Adolescent and School Health Policyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * DASH Partner Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policy Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Policy Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State School-Based Health Education Law Summary Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Data By Topicplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nutrition, Physical Activity, & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Profilesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Map & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Requesting Data Files
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SHPPSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * YRBSSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Maps & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Trends Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * NYPANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Disparitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Addressing Health and Educational Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Considerations for LGBTQ Youthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Protective Factors for LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Health Disparities Among LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Terminology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Survey of Todayâs Adolescent Relationships and Transitions (START)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funded Areasplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Notice of Funding Opportunities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Local Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded State Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Territorial Agency and Tribal Nation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded NGOs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Protective Factorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parent Engagement in Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Positive Parenting Practices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Services for Teensplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Condom Availability Programs (CAPs)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: In Brief
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: Things to Consider
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * High-Risk Substance Use Among Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sexual Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Evaluationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Evaluations of Innovative Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Additional Evaluation Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health & Academicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Anti-Bullying Policies and Enumeration: An Infobrief for Local Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How the WSCC Model Informs HIV, STD, and Pregnancy Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Whole School, Whole Community, Whole Child (WSCC) Model
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * GYT: Get Yourself Tested for High Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Curriculum Analysis Tool (HECAT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HECAT FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Teacher Training Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Publications, Registries, and Other Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Registries of Programs Effective in Reducing Youth Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * NYHAAD Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * HIV Information and Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Portrait Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Buttons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Palm Cards & Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specific Audiencesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Planning for Program Success
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Grants Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Program Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reporting Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parents

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

