Link: https://medlineplus.gov/shingles.html    
                                Description: Learn about shingles (herpes zoster), which is a painful rash, often on one side of the body. It is caused by the same virus that causes chickenpox.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Shingles

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/shingles.html

#  Shingles

Also called: Herpes zoster, Postherpetic neuralgia

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Diagnosis and Tests
  * Prevention and Risk Factors

### Learn More

  * Specifics
  * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

  * Images

### Research

  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Children
  * Older Adults
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is shingles?

Shingles is an outbreak of rash or blisters on the skin. It is caused by the
varicella-zoster virus - the same virus that causes chickenpox. After you have
chickenpox, the virus stays in your body. It may not cause problems for many
years. But as you get older, the virus may reappear as shingles.

### Is shingles contagious?

Shingles is not contagious. But you can catch chickenpox from someone with
shingles. If you've never had chickenpox or the chickenpox vaccine, try to
stay away from anyone who has shingles.

If you have shingles, try to stay away from anyone who has not had chickenpox
or the chickenpox vaccine, or anyone who might have a weak immune system.

### Who is at risk for shingles?

Anyone who has had chickenpox is at risk for getting shingles. But this risk
goes up as you get older; shingles is most common in people over age 50.

People with weakened immune systems are at higher risk of getting shingles.
This includes those who

  * Have immune system diseases such as HIV/AIDS
  * Have certain cancers
  * Take immunosuppressive drugs after an organ transplant

Your immune system may be weaker when you have an infection or are stressed.
This can raise your risk of shingles.

It is rare, but possible, to get shingles more than once.

### What are the symptoms of shingles?

Early signs of shingles include burning or shooting pain and tingling or
itching. It is usually on one side of the body or face. The pain can be mild
to severe.

One to 14 days later, you will get a rash. It consists of blisters that
typically scab over in 7 to 10 days. The rash is usually a single stripe
around either the left or the right side of the body. In other cases, the rash
occurs on one side of the face. In rare cases (usually among people with
weakened immune systems), the rash may be more widespread and look similar to
a chickenpox rash.

Some people may also have other symptoms:

  * Fever
  * Headache
  * Chills
  * Upset stomach

### What other problems can shingles cause?

Shingles can cause complications:

  * Postherpetic neuralgia (PHN) is most common complication of shingles. It causes severe pain in the areas where you had the shingles rash. It usually gets better in a few weeks or months. But some people can have pain from PHN for many years, and it can interfere with daily life.
  * Vision loss can happen if shingles affects your eye. It may be temporary or permanent.
  * Hearing or balance problems are possible if you have shingles within or near your ear. You may also have weakness of the muscles on that side of your face. These problems can be temporary or permanent.

Very rarely, shingles can also lead to pneumonia, brain inflammation
(encephalitis), or death.

### How is shingles diagnosed?

Usually your health care provider can diagnose shingles by taking your medical
history and looking at your rash. In some cases, your provider may scrap off
tissue from the rash or swab some fluid from the blisters and send the sample
to a lab for testing.

### What are the treatments for shingles?

There is no cure for shingles. Antiviral medicines may help to make the attack
shorter and less severe. They may also help prevent PHN. The medicines are
most effective if you can take them within 3 days after the rash appears. So
if you think you might have shingles, contact your health care provider as
soon as possible.

Pain relievers may also help with the pain. A cool washcloth, calamine lotion,
and oatmeal baths may help relieve some of the itching.

### Can shingles be prevented?

There are vaccines to prevent shingles or lessen its effects. The Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention recommends that healthy adults 50 years and
older get the Shingrix vaccine. You need two doses of the vaccine, given 2 to
6 months apart. Another vaccine, Zostavax, may be used in certain cases.

## Start Here

  * Shingles ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) \- Short Summary
  * Shingles (Herpes Zoster) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
  * Shingles: Hope through Research ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Chickenpox and Shingles Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

  * Shingles Transmission (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
  * Sting of Shingles: Vaccine, Treatments Reduce Risks ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
  * What Everyone Should Know about Shingles Vaccine (Shingrix) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * What Everyone Should Know about Zostavax (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Specifics

  * Herpes Zoster Oticus ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
  * Postherpetic Neuralgia (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Ramsay Hunt Syndrome (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)

## Genetics

  * Genetics Home Reference: shingles ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Images

  * Photos of Shingles (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Shingles (Zoster) (Logical Images)
  * Shingles: Signs and Symptoms (American Academy of Dermatology)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Herpes Zoster ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Neuralgia, Postherpetic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Increased risk of herpes zoster in patients with peptic ulcers: A...
  * Article: Risk of herpes zoster after exposure to varicella to explore the...
  * Article: Ultraviolet Radiation Exposure and the Risk of Herpes Zoster in Three...
  * Shingles -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

  * Find a Dermatologist (American Academy of Dermatology)
  * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
  * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Children

  * Shingles (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Older Adults

  * Prevent Shingles (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
  * Shingles ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

  * Post-herpetic neuralgia - aftercare (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Ramsay Hunt syndrome (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Shingles (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Shingles - aftercare (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Shingles Vaccine: What You Need to Know (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF

## Topic Image

![Shingles](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Shingles.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Post-herpetic neuralgia - aftercare
  * Ramsay Hunt syndrome
  * Recombinant zoster (shingles) vaccine, RZV - what you need to know
  * Shingles
  * Shingles - aftercare

## Related Health Topics

  * Chickenpox

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Shingles is the National
Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Shingles_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 15 March 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

