

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Adolescent and School Health

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Profiles Overview

Minus

Related Pages

### Access the 2018 Profiles Report

![profiles_2018_cover_sm](/healthyyouth/data/profiles/images/profiles_2018_cover_sm.jpg)

### question iconWhat is the School Health Profiles?

The School Health Profiles (Profiles) is a system of surveys assessing school
health policies and practices in states, large urban school districts, and
territories. Profiles surveys are conducted biennially by education and health
agencies among middle and high school principals and lead health education
teachers. Profiles monitors the current status of

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * School health education requirements and content,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Physical education and physical activity,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Practices related to bullying and sexual harassment,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * School health policies related to tobacco-use prevention and nutrition,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * School-based health services,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Family engagement and community involvement, and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * School health coordination.

### device iconHow is Profiles conducted?

Profiles is conducted among a sample of secondary schools in a state, large
urban school district, or territory. Profiles data are collected from self-
administered questionnaires from the principal and the lead health education
teacher at each sampled school. In 2018, 43 states, 21 large urban school
districts, and 2 territories obtained data representative of their
jurisdiction. In these states, school districts, and territories, at least 70%
of the principals or lead health education teachers in the sample completed
the questionnaire and the data could then be weighted to represent the
population. States, school districts, and territories that did not obtain at
least a 70% response rate were not weighted; unweighted data represent only
the schools in which the principals or teachers completed the questionnaire.

Across states, the sample sizes of the principal surveys ranged from 72 to 558
and response rates ranged from 71% to 95%. Across large urban school
districts, the sample sizes ranged from 29 to 343 and response rates ranged
from 73% to 100%. The sample sizes of the lead health education teacher
surveys across states ranged from 72 to 581 and response rates ranged from 70%
to 94%. Across large urban school districts, the sample sizes ranged from 35
to 321 and the response rates ranged from 73% to 100%.

### chart iconWhat kind of data does Profiles provide?

Profiles provides data on the following areas:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sexual health education,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Safe and supportive school environments,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sexual health services,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health services for students with chronic conditions,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Supportive school nutrition environments, and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Comprehensive school physical activity programs.

This data shows the progress in the implementation of school policies and
practices to help improve the health of school-aged youth.

Profiles data reflects the percentage of secondary schools in each
participating state, large urban school district, or territory that have a
particular policy or practice in place. To summarize these results, CDC
calculates a median percentage for each policy or practice. A median is the
value separating the higher half of the distribution of percentages from the
lower half. In simple terms, it may be thought of as the "middle" value in the
list of percentages. The median across states provides the middle value of all
of the state percentages, and the median across districts provides this value
among large urban school districts.

### chart iconWhy is Profiles data important and how can it be used?

Profiles data is meant to be used by leaders and decision makers, especially
in schools, school districts, and state education agencies to understand the
gaps in policies and practices that can impact student health and academic
performance. Identifying gaps in school health policies and practices supports
local discussions and decisions about needed changes and monitors those
changes over time. Used with CDC's Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance (YRBS)
data, Profiles data can provide a powerful approach for decision makers to
monitor the impact of their decisions over time.

### building iconHow can policymakers and community leaders use Profiles data?

School-based surveillance, provided by Profiles, helps monitor health policies
and practices and can guide future decision-making. Policymakers and community
leaders can use Profiles data to:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Promote awareness and bring the community together to address gaps in the health and education needs of students.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Develop policies, practices, and programs that protect and support student health and provide needed services.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Inform the efforts of coalitions or task forces in local communities coordinating activities to prevent HIV, STDs, and pregnancy among youth.

### building iconHow are Profiles data used by education agencies and public
health partners?

Education and health officials use Profiles data to

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Describe school health policies and practices and compare them across jurisdictions,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Identify professional development needs,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Plan and monitor programs,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Support health-related policies and legislation,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Seek funding, and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Garner support for future surveys.

### idea iconHow do states and school districts use their Profiles data?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Boston Public Schools has used Profiles results to track implementation of the District Wellness Policy, including health education curriculum delivery, training of teachers, and implementation of their Safe and Supportive Schools Policy. This policy includes availability of gay-straight alliances and safe spaces, availability of health services for sexual minority students, and professional development on bullying.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Delaware Department of Education (DDOE) provides condoms to schools to distribute to students to prevent HIV, STDs and pregnancy. DDOE uses Profiles results to help monitor the percentage of high schools providing access to condoms and other health services.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Maine Department of Education is using School Health Profiles results to inform the revision of their health education and physical education standards.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * In New York City, the Office of School Wellness Programs staff use Profiles data to inform the design of professional learning opportunities for health and physical education teachers and principals.

Page last reviewed: November 15, 2019

Content source: Division of Adolescent and School Health, National Center for
HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

home DASH Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About DASHplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * At A Glance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Why Schools?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Health: What Works In Schoolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Sexual Health Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Works: Safe and Supportive School Environments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youth HIV, STD & Pregnancy Prevention Program Impact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Calendar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Contact DASH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Adolescent and School Health Policyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * DASH Partner Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policy Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Policy Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State School-Based Health Education Law Summary Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Data By Topicplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nutrition, Physical Activity, & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Health Profilesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Map & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Requesting Data Files
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SHPPSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * YRBSSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Participation Maps & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Trends Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * NYPANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Disparitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Addressing Health and Educational Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Considerations for LGBTQ Youthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Protective Factors for LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Health Disparities Among LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Terminology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Survey of Todayâs Adolescent Relationships and Transitions (START)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funded Areasplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Notice of Funding Opportunities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Local Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded State Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Territorial Agency and Tribal Nation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded NGOs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Protective Factorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescent Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parent Engagement in Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Positive Parenting Practices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Services for Teensplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Condom Availability Programs (CAPs)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: In Brief
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CAPs: Things to Consider
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * High-Risk Substance Use Among Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sexual Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Evaluationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Evaluations of Innovative Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Additional Evaluation Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health & Academicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Anti-Bullying Policies and Enumeration: An Infobrief for Local Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How the WSCC Model Informs HIV, STD, and Pregnancy Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Whole School, Whole Community, Whole Child (WSCC) Model
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * GYT: Get Yourself Tested for High Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Curriculum Analysis Tool (HECAT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HECAT FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Education Teacher Training Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Publications, Registries, and Other Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Registries of Programs Effective in Reducing Youth Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * NYHAAD Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * HIV Information and Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Portrait Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Buttons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Palm Cards & Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specific Audiencesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Planning for Program Success
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Grants Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Program Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reporting Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parents

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

