

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Cancer Prevention and Control

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Cancer Research

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

CDC's Division of Cancer Prevention and Control (DCPC) conducts and supports
studies, often in collaboration with partners, to develop and apply sound
science to reduce the burden of cancer and eliminate health disparities. This
research uses many different areas of expertise (behavioral science,
economics, epidemiology, health services, medicine, and statistics) to address
the public health research needs of DCPC programs, health care providers,
people affected by cancer, and the larger comprehensive cancer control
community.

Use our Citation Search Tool to find scientific articles by title, journal,
author, year of publication, and topic. Also see our U.S. Cancer Statistics
data briefs.

## Featured Research

Annual Report to the Nation

![Annual Report to the Nation on the Status of Cancer](/cancer/annual-
report/images/annual-report-nation-cancer-1200.jpg)

Cancer death rates declined from 2001-2017

Cancer death rates continued to drop in the U.S. from 2001 to 2017, but more
work is needed to address disparities in screening and some risk behaviors.

Vital Signs

![Screening for Colorectal Cancer: Don’t Wait. 50’s
Great!](/cancer/images/vital-signs-colorectal-cancer-jumbotron-899.jpg)

Screening for colorectal cancer: Don't wait -- 50's great!

Colorectal cancer is preventable. Screening is recommended beginning at age
50, but only 1 in 2 adults gets a screening test in their early 50s.

Only 1 in 8 people who met the criteria to be screened for lung cancer
reported being screened as recommended. **Read Article »**

![Photo of a couple looking at their laptop.](/cancer/dcpc/images/couple-
laptop-250x166.jpg)

Article Summaries

DCPC scientists author or co-author many articles that are published in
scientific journals each year. Selected articles have been summarized.

![Photo of an extended family.](/cancer/dcpc/images/family-250x166.jpg)

Preventing Cancer Across a Lifetime

Some cancer risk factors can be linked closely to certain age ranges. While
you can't avoid getting older, some cancers appear later in life because of
actions taken over many years. CDC scientists and other experts created the
Cancer Prevention Across the Lifespan workgroup to learn how cancer can be
prevented at different ages.

![Photo of a person typing on a laptop
computer](/cancer/dcpc/images/laptop-250.jpg)

Cancer Research Citation Search

The Cancer Research Citation Search tool allows you to find CDC's latest
cancer research quickly.

Page last reviewed: March 12, 2020

Content source: Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention

home Cancer Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Kinds of Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How to Prevent Cancer or Find It Earlyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Screening Tests
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Vaccines (Shots)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Healthy Choices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cancer Data and Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Tools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Other Cancer Data Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cancer Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Annual Report to the Nationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Healthy People 2020 Targets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer Death Rates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer Incidence Rates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer Among Children, Adolescents, and Young Adults
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Images to Share
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Article Summariesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2018â2019plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cancer in American Indians and Alaska Natives in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Many Older Adults Donât Protect Their Skin From the Sun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Few People Are Being Screened for Lung Cancer as Recommended
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Rates of Children and Teens Getting Cancer by State or Region
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Use of Colorectal Cancer Screening Tests by State
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * HPV Vaccines and Cervical Precancers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2017plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cancer Survival in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Certain People with Colorectal Cancer Are Less Likely to Get an Important Test
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Race, Sex, and Age Can Make a Difference in Surviving HPV-Associated Cancers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cost of Cancer-Related Neutropenia or Fever Hospitalizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Some Older Women Are Not Getting Recommended Cervical Cancer Screenings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Most Schools Can Do More to Help Students Stay Sun Safe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Indoor Tanning Among Adults in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Parents and Friends Can Influence Teensâ Decisions About Starting Indoor Tanning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Deaths from Colorectal Cancer in U.S. Counties with Lower Education Levels
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Money Worries Affect How Some Cancer Patients Take Prescribed Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Annual Report to the Nation on the Status of Cancer, 1975â2014
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cancer Screening Prevalence Among Adults with Disabilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Economic Evaluation of CDCâs Colorectal Cancer Control Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2016plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State of the Science on Melanoma Prevention and Screening
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Developing a Cost Data Collection Tool for Cancer Registry Planning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Anxiety and Depression Medicine Use Among Cancer Survivors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Breast Cancer Rates Among Black Women and White Women
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Schools Can Help Prevent Skin Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lung Cancer Survivors May Feel Blame
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Colorectal Cancer Screening Capacity in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * New Cases of Melanoma Among Hispanics in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Annual Report to the Nation on the Status of Cancer, 1975â2012
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2015plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cancer Survivorship Supplement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Gallbladder Cancer Incidence and Death Rates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sunscreen Use Among Adults in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Expected New Cancer Cases and Deaths in 2020plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Actual and Projected Cancer Incidence Rates, United States, 1975 to 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Actual and Projected Cancer Death Rates, United States, 1975 to 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Assessment of HPV Types in Cancers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Use of the Persuasive Health Message Framework in a Mammography Promotion Campaign
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * African American Women and Mass Media Campaign Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cancer Survival: The Start of Global Surveillance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Preventing Cancer Across a Lifetimeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer Prevention During Early Life
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer Prevention Among Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer Prevention During Early Adulthood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer Prevention During Midlife
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer Prevention During Older Adulthood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Citation Search Tool
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Risk Factors and Cancerplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Alcohol and Cancerplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Preventing Cancer by Reducing Excessive Alcohol Useplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Community Strategies to Reduce Excessive Alcohol Use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinical Strategies to Reduce Excessive Alcohol Use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What Comprehensive Cancer Control Programs Can Do to Reduce Excessive Alcohol Use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Potential Partners for Comprehensive Cancer Control Coalitions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HPV and Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Tobacco and Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Family Health History and Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cancer Survivors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Preventing Infections in Cancer Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cancer and Flu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Resource Libraryplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Videosplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer Survivorship
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Shareable Graphicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Print Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Featuresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Breast Cancer Awareness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Breast Cancer in Young Women
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer and Men
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer and Women
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer Prevention Starts in Childhood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer, the Flu, and You
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cervical Cancer Awareness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Colorectal Cancer Awareness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gynecologic Cancer Awareness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * How to Stay Healthy After Cancer Treatment Ends
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Lung Cancer Awareness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Preventing Infections in Cancer Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Prostate Cancer Awareness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Skin Cancer Awareness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * World Cancer Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * _Cancer Prevention Works_ Newsletter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Resources for Health Care Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CME Courses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Webinars and Other Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Medscape Expert Commentaries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Blog Posts: Helpful Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Screening Guidelines and Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About Usplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Leadersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Lisa C. Richardson
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Vicki Benard, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Djenaba A. Joseph
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jacqueline W. Miller
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mona Saraiya, MD, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Judith Lee Smith, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Hannah K. Weir, PhD, MSc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mary C. White
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Featured Scientistsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Vicki Benard, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Natasha Buchanan Lunsford, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Simone Gray, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ingrid J. Hall, PhD, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Donald Haverkamp, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jane Henley, MSPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Dawn M. Holman, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Commander Djenaba A. Joseph, MD, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Stephanie C. Melkonian, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Captain Jacqueline W. Miller, MD, FACS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Behnoosh Momin, DrPH, MS, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Lucy A. Peipins, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Lori A. Pollack, MD, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Thomas B. Richards, MD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Lisa C. Richardson, MD, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Sun Hee Rim, PhD, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Elizabeth A. Rohan, PhD, MSW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mona Saraiya, MD, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Simple Singh, MD, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Judith Lee Smith, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Eric Tai, MD, MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Florence Tangka, PhD, MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Julie Townsend, MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Hannah K. Weir, PhD, MSc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Arica White, PhD, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mary C. White, ScD, MFA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Organization Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * National Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Educational Campaigns
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Initiatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDCâs Cancer Genomics Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Logic Model

## Stay Informed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * govd

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

