Link: https://medlineplus.gov/maculardegeneration.html    
                                Description: Macular degeneration, or age-related macular degeneration (AMD), causes vision loss in older adults. Learn about the types and what can help.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Macular Degeneration

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/maculardegeneration.html

#  Macular Degeneration

Also called: Age-related macular degeneration, AMD

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Diagnosis and Tests
  * Prevention and Risk Factors
  * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

  * Living With
  * Specifics
  * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

  * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

  * Statistics and Research
  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Reference Desk
  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Children
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Macular degeneration, or age-related macular degeneration (AMD), is a leading
cause of vision loss in Americans 60 and older. It is a disease that destroys
your sharp, central vision. You need central vision to see objects clearly and
to do tasks such as reading and driving.

AMD affects the macula, the part of the eye that allows you to see fine
detail. It does not hurt, but it causes cells in the macula to die. There are
two types: wet and dry. Wet AMD happens when abnormal blood vessels grow under
the macula. These new blood vessels often leak blood and fluid. Wet AMD
damages the macula quickly. Blurred vision is a common early symptom. Dry AMD
happens when the light-sensitive cells in the macula slowly break down. Your
gradually lose your central vision. A common early symptom is that straight
lines appear crooked.

Regular comprehensive eye exams can detect macular degeneration before the
disease causes vision loss. Treatment can slow vision loss. It does not
restore vision.

NIH: National Eye Institute

## Start Here

  * Age-related Macular Degeneration ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Eye Institute)
  * What Is Age-Related Macular Degeneration? (American Academy of Ophthalmology) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Dilating Eye Drops (American Association for Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus)

## Prevention and Risk Factors

  * Macular Degeneration Prevention and Risk Factors (BrightFocus Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

  * Choosing Wisely When It Comes to Eye Care: Antibiotics for Eye Injections (American Academy of Ophthalmology)
  * What the Age-Related Eye Disease Studies Mean for You (AREDS2) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Eye Institute)

## Living With

  * Diet and Nutrition (American Academy of Ophthalmology) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

  * Dry Macular Degeneration (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Wet Macular Degeneration (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Genetics

  * Genetics Home Reference: age-related macular degeneration ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: Stargardt macular degeneration ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Videos and Tutorials

  * Macular degeneration ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Statistics and Research

  * Blood Pressure Drugs and AMD (American Academy of Ophthalmology)
  * NIH Study Provides Clarity on Supplements for Protection Against Blinding Eye Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Eye Institute)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Macular Degeneration ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: The role of lipocalin-2 in age-related macular degeneration (AMD).
  * Article: Senescence in the pathogenesis of age-related macular degeneration.
  * Article: Epigenetics in age-related macular degeneration: new discoveries and future perspectives.
  * Macular Degeneration -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

  * Diagram of the Eye ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Eye Institute) Also in Spanish

## Find an Expert

  * American Optometric Association
  * Find Services for People Who Are Blind or Visually Impaired (American Foundation for the Blind)
  * National Eye Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

  * Stargardt Disease (Foundation Fighting Blindness)

## Patient Handouts

  * Fluorescein angiography (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Home vision tests (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Intravitreal injection (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Macular degeneration - age-related (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Macular
Degeneration](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MacularDegeneration.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Fluorescein angiography
  * Home vision tests
  * Intravitreal injection
  * Macular degeneration
  * Macular degeneration - age-related
  * Ophthalmoscopy
  * Slit-lamp exam
  * Standard ophthalmic exam

## Related Health Topics

  * Eye Diseases
  * Vision Impairment and Blindness

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Macular Degeneration is the
National Eye Institute

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 27 December 2019 Topic last reviewed: 12 April 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

