

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Preventing Infections in Cancer Patients

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Preventing Infections in Cancer Patients

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

![Getting chemo? Learn how to prevent infections and stay healthy during
treatment](/cancer/preventinfections/images/prevent-infections-
banner-1184.jpg)

Patients and Caregivers

![Photo of a cancer patient and her mother drinking
coffee](/cancer/preventinfections/images/caregiver-394.jpg)

Learn how chemotherapy raises your risk of getting an infection and what to do
if you get an infection during chemotherapy.

Health Care Providers

![Photo of a doctor giving an intravenous chemotherapy treatment to a female
cancer patient](/cancer/preventinfections/images/oncologist-394.jpg)

Our resources explain how to protect cancer patients who receive chemotherapy
in an outpatient oncology clinic from infections.

Educational Materials

![Photo of a man and a woman looking at a laptop
computer](/cancer/preventinfections/images/couple-laptop-394.jpg)

We offer a variety of materials to help promote awareness about the importance
of preventing infections in cancer patients.

Fight Germs. Wash Your Hands!

Fight Germs. Wash Your Hands!

media iconLow Resolution Video

Handwashing is an important way to keep from getting sick and spreading germs
to others. This videoexternal icon shows you how to wash your hands the right
way.

Featured Resources

![This flu season, protect yourself, your family, your friends, and your
community from the flu.](/cancer/preventinfections/images/flu-160.jpg)

Learn what cancer patients, survivors, and caregivers should know about the
flu.

![Photo of a person washing her
hands](/cancer/preventinfections/images/handwashing-160.png)

Blog post: Best Remedy for COVID-19 Is Prevention

![3 steps toward preventing infections during cancer treatment: prepare,
prevent, protect](/cancer/preventinfections/images/3steps-160x120.jpg)

Find out if you're at high risk of getting an infection during cancer
treatment on the 3 Steps website.external icon

The _Preventing Infections in Cancer Patients_ campaign provides resources to
help lower the risk of cancer patients developing potentially life-threatening
infections during chemotherapy treatment.

Page last reviewed: December 16, 2019

Content source: Division of Cancer Prevention and Control,, Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention

home Preventing Infections in Cancer Patients

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Patients and Caregiversplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Watch Out for Fever
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Clean Your Hands
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Know the Signs and Symptoms of Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Neutropenia and Risk for Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Educational Materials

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

