

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Cancer

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Webinars and Other Videos

Minus

Related Pages

![Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices \(ACIP\) conference, Tom Harkin
Global Communication Center, Auditorium B, June 26, 2019](/cancer/health-care-
providers/images/acip-conference-august-2019-180x102.jpg)

June 2019 ACIP Meeting: Welcome and Introductions, HPV

Welcome and introductions; 9vHPV immunogenicity and safety trial in mid-adult
females; overview of health economic models for HPV vaccination of mid-adults;
Evidence to Recommendations (EtR) Framework; work group considerations and
proposed policy.

![Photo of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices meeting in August,
2019](/cancer/health-care-providers/images/acip-vote-august-2019-181x102.jpg)

June 2019 ACIP Meeting: Votes

Human papillomavirus, pneumococcal vaccines, and VFC votes.

![Perspectives on Oropharyngeal Cancer: Scientific Overview, Clinical
Expertise, and Personal Experience, February 13, 2019](/cancer/health-care-
providers/images/oropharyngeal-cancer-181x102.jpg)

#PreteenVaxScene Webinar #15: Perspectives on Oropharyngeal Cancer

Two experts explain the burden and epidemiology of oropharyngeal cancer, a
clinical picture of the disease, and the importance of vaccination to prevent
HPV infections. The webinar will also help listeners learn about oropharyngeal
cancer through the eyes of a survivor.

![Early Onset Breast Cancer for Providers](/cancer/health-care-
providers/images/early-onset-breast-cancer-video.jpg)

Early Onset Breast Cancer

Nearly 11% of breast cancer patients are under the age of 45. Improve the
quality of care for your young patients by learning about the risk factors for
early onset breast cancer, and the steps you can take to improve outcomes for
patients at risk.

![CDC Public Health Grand Rounds: Preventing Cervical Cancer in the 21st
Century, January 15, 2019](/cancer/health-care-providers/images/cervical-
cancer-grand-rounds-181x102.jpg)

Preventing Cervical Cancer in the 21st Century

This session of Public Health Grand Rounds describes advances in cervical
cancer screening and HPV vaccination efforts.

![Beyond the Data](/cancer/dcpc/images/BeyondData_181.jpg)

Preventing Cervical Cancer in the 21st Century (Beyond the Data)

Dr. Phoebe Thorpe and Dr. Francisco Garcia discuss successes of community-
based cervical cancer prevention.

![Photo of Dr. Natasha Buchanan Lunsford](/cancer/dcpc/images/nbuchanan-
mentalhealth-surv-181.jpg)

Psychosocial Distress Screening

Learn about tools that health care providers can use to conduct distress
screening with cancer survivors from Dr. Natasha Buchanan Lunsford.

![Beyond the Data](/cancer/dcpc/images/BeyondData_181.jpg)

Prevention and Control of Skin Cancer (Beyond the Data)

Dr. John Iskander and Dr. Lisa Richardson discuss the need for a comprehensive
approach to reduce UV exposure and promote policies that help prevent skin
cancer.

![An Interprofessional Approach to HPV and Oropharyngeal Cancer Prevention
Education](/cancer/dcpc/images/HPV-Oropharyngeal-Cancer-PE.jpg)

An Interprofessional Approach to HPV and Oropharyngeal Cancer Prevention
Education

In this webinar, members of the Massachusetts Oral HPV Prevention Taskforce
explain how dental professionals can help their patients make informed
decisions about oral health and cancer prevention.

![Vaccine Conversations That
Work](/cancer/dcpc/images/VacccineConversations_181.jpg)

Vaccine Conversations That Work

Dr. Sharon Humiston, Dr. Nathan Boonstra, and Dr. Margot Savoy share their
best practices for giving an effective recommendation, how to educate parents
about HPV vaccine, what to do when parents decline or delay, and then
highlight some useful resources.

![Screening for Colorectal Cancer: Optimizing
Quality](/cancer/colorectal/quality/optimizing-quality-181.jpg)

Screening for Colorectal Cancer: Optimizing Quality

These videos provide guidance and tools for clinicians on the optimal ways to
implement screening for colorectal cancer to help ensure that patients receive
maximum benefit. There are two versions of this course: one for primary care
providers and one for clinicians who perform colonoscopy.

![Cancer and Family History: Using Genomics for
Prevention](/cancer/dcpc/images/GrandRounds_Genomics_181.jpg)

Cancer and Family History: Using Genomics for Prevention

In this session of Grand Rounds, experts explain how cancer genomics programs
are working together to conduct surveillance and educate the public and health
care providers about hereditary cancer syndromes.

![Beyond the Data](/cancer/dcpc/images/BeyondData_181.jpg)

Cancer and Family History: Using Genomics for Prevention (Beyond the Data)

Dr. John Iskander and Dr. Lisa Richardson discuss how establishing a patient's
family history can help health care providers identify genetic mutations that
may lead to cancer.

![Prevention and Control of Skin
Cancer](/cancer/dcpc/images/skin_grand_rounds_video_181_102.jpg)

Prevention and Control of Skin Cancer

In this session of Grand Rounds, experts discuss skin cancer prevention and
control, with particular attention to how we can help people protect their
skin and their lives while enjoying the outdoors.

![Reducing the Burden of HPV-associated Cancer and Disease through Vaccination
in the U.S.](/cancer/dcpc/images/HPVGrandRounds_181.jpg)

Reducing the Burden of HPV-associated Cancer and Disease through Vaccination
in the U.S.

This session of Grand Rounds explored the burden of human papillomavirus
(HPV)-associated cancer and disease in the United States and prevention
through HPV vaccination.

![Beyond the Data](/cancer/dcpc/images/BeyondData_181.jpg)

Reducing the Burden of HPV (Beyond the Data)

Dr. Lauri Markowitz highlights how providers can help by sending reminders,
arranging quick visits, and promoting anti-cancer vaccine.

Page last reviewed: August 21, 2019

Content source: Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention

home Cancer Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Kinds of Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How to Prevent Cancer or Find It Earlyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Screening Tests
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Vaccines (Shots)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Healthy Choices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cancer Data and Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Tools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Other Cancer Data Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cancer Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Annual Report to the Nationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Healthy People 2020 Targets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer Death Rates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer Incidence Rates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer Among Children, Adolescents, and Young Adults
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Images to Share
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Article Summariesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2018â2019plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cancer in American Indians and Alaska Natives in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Many Older Adults Donât Protect Their Skin From the Sun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Few People Are Being Screened for Lung Cancer as Recommended
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Rates of Children and Teens Getting Cancer by State or Region
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Use of Colorectal Cancer Screening Tests by State
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * HPV Vaccines and Cervical Precancers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2017plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cancer Survival in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Certain People with Colorectal Cancer Are Less Likely to Get an Important Test
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Race, Sex, and Age Can Make a Difference in Surviving HPV-Associated Cancers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cost of Cancer-Related Neutropenia or Fever Hospitalizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Some Older Women Are Not Getting Recommended Cervical Cancer Screenings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Most Schools Can Do More to Help Students Stay Sun Safe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Indoor Tanning Among Adults in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Parents and Friends Can Influence Teensâ Decisions About Starting Indoor Tanning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Deaths from Colorectal Cancer in U.S. Counties with Lower Education Levels
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Money Worries Affect How Some Cancer Patients Take Prescribed Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Annual Report to the Nation on the Status of Cancer, 1975â2014
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cancer Screening Prevalence Among Adults with Disabilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Economic Evaluation of CDCâs Colorectal Cancer Control Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2016plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State of the Science on Melanoma Prevention and Screening
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Developing a Cost Data Collection Tool for Cancer Registry Planning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Anxiety and Depression Medicine Use Among Cancer Survivors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Breast Cancer Rates Among Black Women and White Women
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Schools Can Help Prevent Skin Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lung Cancer Survivors May Feel Blame
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Colorectal Cancer Screening Capacity in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * New Cases of Melanoma Among Hispanics in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Annual Report to the Nation on the Status of Cancer, 1975â2012
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2015plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cancer Survivorship Supplement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Gallbladder Cancer Incidence and Death Rates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sunscreen Use Among Adults in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Expected New Cancer Cases and Deaths in 2020plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Actual and Projected Cancer Incidence Rates, United States, 1975 to 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Actual and Projected Cancer Death Rates, United States, 1975 to 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Assessment of HPV Types in Cancers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Use of the Persuasive Health Message Framework in a Mammography Promotion Campaign
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * African American Women and Mass Media Campaign Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cancer Survival: The Start of Global Surveillance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Preventing Cancer Across a Lifetimeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer Prevention During Early Life
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer Prevention Among Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer Prevention During Early Adulthood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer Prevention During Midlife
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer Prevention During Older Adulthood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Citation Search Tool
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Risk Factors and Cancerplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Alcohol and Cancerplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Preventing Cancer by Reducing Excessive Alcohol Useplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Community Strategies to Reduce Excessive Alcohol Use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinical Strategies to Reduce Excessive Alcohol Use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What Comprehensive Cancer Control Programs Can Do to Reduce Excessive Alcohol Use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Potential Partners for Comprehensive Cancer Control Coalitions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HPV and Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Tobacco and Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Family Health History and Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cancer Survivors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Preventing Infections in Cancer Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cancer and Flu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Resource Libraryplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Videosplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer Survivorship
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Shareable Graphicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Print Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Featuresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Breast Cancer Awareness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Breast Cancer in Young Women
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer and Men
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer and Women
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer Prevention Starts in Childhood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cancer, the Flu, and You
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cervical Cancer Awareness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Colorectal Cancer Awareness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gynecologic Cancer Awareness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * How to Stay Healthy After Cancer Treatment Ends
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Lung Cancer Awareness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Preventing Infections in Cancer Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Prostate Cancer Awareness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Skin Cancer Awareness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * World Cancer Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * _Cancer Prevention Works_ Newsletter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Resources for Health Care Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CME Courses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Webinars and Other Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Medscape Expert Commentaries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Blog Posts: Helpful Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Screening Guidelines and Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About Usplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Leadersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Lisa C. Richardson
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Vicki Benard, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Djenaba A. Joseph
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jacqueline W. Miller
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mona Saraiya, MD, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Judith Lee Smith, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Hannah K. Weir, PhD, MSc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mary C. White
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Featured Scientistsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Vicki Benard, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Natasha Buchanan Lunsford, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Simone Gray, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ingrid J. Hall, PhD, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Donald Haverkamp, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jane Henley, MSPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Dawn M. Holman, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Commander Djenaba A. Joseph, MD, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Stephanie C. Melkonian, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Captain Jacqueline W. Miller, MD, FACS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Behnoosh Momin, DrPH, MS, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Lucy A. Peipins, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Lori A. Pollack, MD, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Thomas B. Richards, MD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Lisa C. Richardson, MD, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Sun Hee Rim, PhD, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Elizabeth A. Rohan, PhD, MSW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mona Saraiya, MD, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Simple Singh, MD, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Judith Lee Smith, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Eric Tai, MD, MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Florence Tangka, PhD, MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Julie Townsend, MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Hannah K. Weir, PhD, MSc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Arica White, PhD, MPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mary C. White, ScD, MFA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Organization Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * National Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Educational Campaigns
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Initiatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDCâs Cancer Genomics Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Logic Model

## Stay Informed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * govd

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

