

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Colorectal (Colon) Cancer

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Colorectal (Colon) Cancer

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

![Image of a woman looking at a bulletin board that says FIT, colonoscopy,
flexible sigmoidoscopy, FIT-DNA, and
gFOBT](/cancer/colorectal/images/colorectal-banner-blank-1350.jpg)

March Is National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month

Find out how you can help prevent colorectal cancer.

![Image of a woman looking at a bulletin board that says FIT, colonoscopy,
flexible sigmoidoscopy, FIT-DNA, and
gFOBT](/cancer/colorectal/images/colorectal-banner-blank-950.jpg)

March Is National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month

Find out how you can help prevent colorectal cancer.

![Image of a woman looking at a bulletin board that says FIT, colonoscopy,
flexible sigmoidoscopy, FIT-DNA, and
gFOBT](/cancer/colorectal/images/colorectal-banner-blank-734.jpg)

March Is National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month

Find out how you can help prevent colorectal cancer.

Basic Information

![Photo of a man and a woman looking at a laptop
computer](/cancer/colorectal/images/couple-laptop-300x200.jpg)

Learn what colorectal cancer is, how to lower your risk, and about the
symptoms, risk factors, and screening tests for colorectal cancer.

Statistics

![Photo of a person looking at statistics about the United States on a digital
tablet](/cancer/prostate/images/usmap-tablet-300x200.jpg)

Colorectal cancer is a common cancer in men and women in the United States.
The Data Visualizations Tool provides detailed statistics.

_Screen for Life_

![Photo of a man and a woman](/cancer/colorectal/images/sfl-main-300x200.jpg)

CDC's _Screen for Life_ campaign tells men and women who are 50 years old or
older about the importance of colorectal cancer screening.

Community Garden

Community Garden (:60)

pdf iconView Transcript media iconLow Resolution Video

This animated public service announcement counters myths and excuses people
use to avoid getting screened for colorectal cancer.

Featured Resources

![Image of a woman in a garden](/cancer/colorectal/images/resources-to-
share-160.jpg)

Share videos, podcasts, public service announcements, posters, brochures,
graphics, and social media posts.

![Photo of Robert, a colorectal cancer
survivor](/cancer/survivors/images/robert-160.jpg)

People who had colorectal cancer screening tests describe why they did it and
what it was like.

![Photo of a nurse talking to a man](/cancer/colorectal/images/nurse-160.jpg)

CDC's Colorectal Cancer Control Program helps states and tribes increase
colorectal cancer screening rates.

CDC works with partners to reduce the burden of colorectal cancer in the
United States. Learn what CDC is doing.

Page last reviewed: February 10, 2020

Content source: Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention

home Colorectal Cancer

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Basic Informationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What Is Colorectal Cancer?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What Are the Risk Factors?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What Can I Do to Reduce My Risk?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What Are the Symptoms?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What Should I Know About Screening?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Screening Tests
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Questions to Ask Your Doctor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Screening Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Robertâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Use of Colorectal Cancer Screening Tests
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What CDC Is Doing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Colorectal Cancer Quiz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Resources to Shareplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Live-Read Radio Scripts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Shareable Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Print Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Social Media Posts and Images
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * _Screen for Life_ Campaignplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About the Campaign
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Campaign Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Screening for Colorectal Cancer: Optimizing Quality

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

