Link: https://medlineplus.gov/pelvicpain.html    
                                Description: Pelvic pain in the area below your belly button may be caused by different reasons. Talk to your doctor about your specific symptoms. Get tips here.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Pelvic Pain

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/pelvicpain.html

#  Pelvic Pain

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Symptoms
  * Diagnosis and Tests
  * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

  * Related Issues

### See, Play and Learn

  * Images

### Research

  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Children
  * Men

## Summary

Pelvic pain occurs mostly in the lower abdomen area. The pain might be steady,
or it might come and go. It can be a sharp and stabbing pain in a specific
spot, or a dull pain that is spread out. If the pain is severe, it might get
in the way of your daily activities.

If you're a woman, you might feel pain during your period. It could also
happen when you have sex. Pelvic pain can be a sign that there is a problem
with one of the organs in your pelvic area, such as the uterus, ovaries,
fallopian tubes, cervix, or vagina. If you're a man, the cause could be
problem with the prostate. In men and women, it could be a symptom of
infection, or a problem with the urinary tract, lower intestines, rectum,
muscle, or bone. Some women have more than one cause of pelvic pain at the
same time.

You might have to have lab, imaging, or other medical tests to find the cause
of the pain. The treatment will depend on the cause, how bad the pain is, and
how often it occurs.

NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development

## Start Here

  * Chronic Pelvic Pain (American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists)
  * Pelvic Pain ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
  * Pudendal Neuralgia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center)

## Symptoms

  * What Are the Symptoms of Pelvic Pain? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * How Is Pelvic Pain Diagnosed? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
  * Laparoscopy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Pelvic Exam (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Pelvic laparoscopy - slideshow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Ultrasound -- Pelvis ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

  * Chronic pelvic pain (pelvic congestion syndrome) (Society of Interventional Radiology)
  * How Is Pelvic Pain Treated? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

  * Other Pelvic Pain FAQs ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Images

  * Pelvic Exam ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Pelvic Pain ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Pudendal Neuralgia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Acupuncture combined with tamsulosin hydrochloride sustained-release capsule in the treatment of...
  * Article: Time-effective analgesic effect of acupressure ankle strip pressing wrist and ankle...
  * Article: Imaging of Acute Pelvic Pain: Pregnant (Ectopic and First-trimester Viability Updated).
  * Pelvic Pain -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

  * Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
  * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

  * Ultrasound: Pelvis (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)

## Men

  * Prostatitis (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Prostatitis: Inflammation of the Prostate ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Topic Image

![Pelvic Pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PelvicPain.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Culdocentesis
  * Diagnostic laparoscopy
  * Mittelschmerz
  * Pelvic CT scan
  * Pelvic laparoscopy
  * Pelvic laparoscopy - slideshow
  * Transvaginal ultrasound

## Related Health Topics

  * Abdominal Pain
  * Sexual Problems in Women

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Pelvic Pain is the Eunice Kennedy
Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 18 October 2019 Topic last reviewed: 4 August 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

