

Skip directly to search Skip directly to A to Z list Skip directly to
navigation Skip directly to page options Skip directly to site content

![Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People](/TemplatePackage/3.0/images/masthead_subpage.svg)
![Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People](/TemplatePackage/3.0/images/masthead_1-col.svg)

Start of Search Controls

Search Form Controls

TOPIC ONLY

Search The CDC

cancel submit

CDC A-Z Index

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * MENU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC A-Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * SEARCH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * #

Start of Search Controls

Search Form Controls

TOPIC ONLY

Search The CDC

cancel submit

## The Topic Is Cancer

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

### Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Colorectal (Colon) Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Breast Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cervical Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Lung Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Skin Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Other
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cancer Prevention and Control

# Cancer Registry Data: In the Clouds

Posted on Friday, April 3, 2020 by DCPC

Recommend on Facebook Tweet
![Share](/TemplatePackage/3.0/images/social/addthis-32.png)ShareCompartir

![National Program of Cancer
Registries](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2020/03/NPCR_logo_jpg-300x294.jpg)National
Program of Cancer Registries at CDC coordinates the collection and
verification on nearly all reportable cancer cases in the United States.

Vicki Benard, PhD  
CDC Division of Cancer Prevention and Control  
Cancer Surveillance Branch Chief

Technology has come a long way in recent years. With one click we can have
items at our doorstep within days or even hours! We can catch a ride to the
airport, keep in touch with friends and family on social networks, and use
Internet search engines for movie trivia instead of our memories. A lot of
technological advancements add to fun and convenience, but technological
advancements in cancer registry data can affect lives.

### What Is the National Program of Cancer Registries?

National Program of Cancer Registries (NPCR) at CDC coordinates the collection
and verification on nearly all reportable cancer cases in the United States.
With the help of NPCR, each year information on over 1.67 million new cancer
cases are reported to CDC through cancer registries in 46 states, territories,
and the District of Columbia. The goal of NPCR is to provide cancer data
needed to measure progress and target action to prevent and control cancer.

### Solution Requires Modernization

Traditionally, cancer registry data comes from manually reviewing the notes in
medical records during the evaluation and treatment of patients, abstracting
the most important components, and repackaging the data into one cancer case
record. The challenge is that there are so many reporting sources and it
becomes complicated to bring together these data while maintaining
completeness and accuracy. The diagnosis of most cancers in the United States
starts with a pathology report that describes cells and type of cancer. Today,
pathology reports are increasingly electronic (ePath). By obtaining this ePath
reporting first, this could be one way to increase the speed to near real-time
cancer reporting.

![](https://blogs.cdc.gov/cancer/files/2020/03/Informatics1-300x253.jpg)The
latest technology is cloud-based computing, which stores data and programs
over the Internet.

### Cloud-Based Data Capture and Sharing

The latest technology is cloud-based computing, which stores data and programs
over the Internet. NPCR is partnering with Quest Diagnostics (a national
pathology laboratory), the Association of Public Health Laboratories (APHL),
and three central cancer registries (California, Louisiana, and Nevada) to use
cloud-based computing and electronic messaging services to effectively gather
ePath data for central cancer registries. Over the past decade, NPCR has
worked with individual laboratories to implement standardized ePath reporting.
Central cancer registries had to set up secure data connections with each
laboratory and manage each one. Quest Diagnostics sends all pathology data to
APHL and then these data get distributed by APHL to the correct central cancer
registry.

This innovative electronic reporting project could lead to several
possibilities: 1) a foundation for other pathology laboratories to send ePath
data to central cancer registries using cloud-based computing; 2) a single
portal for all laboratory reporting; and 3) access to electronic cancer data
received from physician electronic health records and hospitals. As data are
available, cancer planners and researchers can use it to improve cancer
prevention, control, and treatment.

We use technology to expand our knowledge base in so many arenas of our lives
now. Technological advancements on the back end can make complex ideas easy to
understand and actionable. NPCR is striving to achieve the same goal with
cancer data. The faster we receive data, the faster we can connect people to
the care and support they may need.

Posted on Friday, April 3, 2020 by DCPC

Categories Other

* * *

### Post a Comment

###  Cancel Reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment

All comments posted become a part of the public domain, and users are
responsible for their comments. This is a moderated site and your comments
will be reviewed before they are posted. Read more about our comment policy »

Name *

Email *

Current ye@r *

Leave this field empty

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * ePub file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RIS file

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Page last reviewed:Friday, April 3, 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Page last updated:Friday, April 3, 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Content source: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Division of Cancer Prevention and Control

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * YouTube

![Department of Health and Human
Services](/TemplatePackage/3.0/images/hhs.png)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * ###### About CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Employment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Newsroom
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Training/Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC's Organization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Mission and Vision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Using this Site
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * ###### Legal

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Link to Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Accessibility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * No FEAR Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Inspector General
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * USA.gov
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   * ###### Contact CDC

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

1600 Clifton Road Atlanta, GA 30329-4027 USA

800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636)

Contact CDC-INFO

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

