

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Colorectal Cancer Control Program (CRCCP)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Awardee Highlights

Minus

Related Pages

Colorectal Cancer Control Program awardees have found a variety of innovative
ways to increase colorectal cancer screening rates in their communities. We
share some of their stories.

![Photo of a group of doctors and clinic staff members having a discussion in
a hospital](/cancer/crccp/success/images/doctor-staff-250.jpg)

Provider Reminders

Maryland, South Carolina, Alabama, and New Hampshire get more of their
patients screened for colorectal cancer by reminding their health care
providers when their patients are due for screenings.

![Photo of a clinic staff member reviewing patient medical
records](/cancer/crccp/success/images/staff-data-entry-250.jpg)

Clinic Quality Improvement Efforts

Finding several ways to make improvements has a big impact in clinics in Iowa,
Illinois, Montana, Rhode Island, California, and Arkansas.

![Photo of a doctor talking to a patient](/cancer/crccp/success/images/doctor-
patient-250.jpg)

Colorectal Cancer Test Choice

Kentucky, South Dakota, and Virginia got results when health care providers
talked to patients about the different colorectal cancer tests available.

![Photo of a patient navigator calling a patient on the
phone](/cancer/crccp/success/images/patient-navigator-250.jpg)

Patient Navigation

Using patient navigators to help patients overcome barriers and understand the
medical system helps patients in Kentucky and Florida get the screening and
follow-up care they need.

![Photo of a man talking on a telephone](/cancer/crccp/success/images/man-
phone-250.jpg)

West Virginia Clinic Raises Its Colorectal Cancer Screening Rate

Calling patients to remind them about appointments and tests can increase
screening. See how West Virginia's program worked with one clinic to increase
screening.

Page last reviewed: March 30, 2020

Content source: Division of Cancer Prevention and Control , Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention

home CRCCP

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About the Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * How the Colorectal Cancer Control Program Increases Screening
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Spotlight on Year 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Awardee Highlightsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Provider Reminders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Clinic Quality Improvement Efforts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Colorectal Cancer Test Choice
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Patient Navigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * West Virginia Clinic Raises Its Colorectal Cancer Screening Rate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CRCCP Evaluation Results and Publicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Effectiveness and Cost of a Mailed FIT Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Cost-Effectiveness of Multiple Interventions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Results from Year One
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Evaluation Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Measuring Outcomes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Publicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Guide for Measuring Cancer Screening Rates in Health System Clinics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * New Hampshire Colorectal Cancer Screening Program Patient Navigation Model Replication Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Resources to Share
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The CRCCP Grantees
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * DP20-2002: Partnerships to Increase Colorectal Cancer Screening in Clinical Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Questions and Answers Part 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Questions and Answers Part 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Questions and Answers Part 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Questions and Answers Part 4

## Stay Informed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * govd

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

