Link: https://medlineplus.gov/hpv.html    
                                Description: Human Papillomavirus (HPV) is a common sexually transmitted infection. A pap smear can help detect changes in the cervix caused by HPV. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

HPV

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/hpv.html

#  HPV

Also called: Human papillomavirus

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Symptoms
  * Diagnosis and Tests
  * Prevention and Risk Factors

### Learn More

  * Related Issues
  * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

  * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

  * Statistics and Research
  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Children
  * Teenagers
  * Men
  * Women
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is HPV?

Human papillomavirus (HPV) is a group of related viruses. They can cause warts
on different parts of your body. There are more than 200 types. About 40 of
them are spread through direct sexual contact with someone who has the virus.
They can also spread through other intimate, skin-to-skin contact. Some of
these types can cause cancer.

There are two categories of sexually transmitted HPV. Low-risk HPV can cause
warts on or around your genitals, anus, mouth, or throat. High-risk HPV can
cause various cancers:

  * Cervical cancer
  * Anal cancer
  * Some types of oral and throat cancer
  * Vulvar cancer
  * Vaginal cancer
  * Penile cancer

Most HPV infections go away on their own and don't cause cancer. But sometimes
the infections last longer. When a high-risk HPV infection lasts for many
years, it can lead to cell changes. If these changes are not treated, they may
get worse over time and become cancer.

### Who is at risk for HPV infections?

HPV infections are very common. Nearly all sexually active people are infected
with HPV soon after they become sexually active.

### What are the symptoms of HPV infections?

Some people develop warts from certain low-risk HPV infections, but the other
types (including the high-risk types) have no symptoms.

If a high-risk HPV infection lasts for many years and causes cell changes, you
may have symptoms. You may also have symptoms if those cell changes develop
into cancer. Which symptoms you would have depends on which part of the body
is affected.

### How are HPV infections diagnosed?

Health care providers can usually diagnose warts by looking at them.

For women, there are cervical cancer screening tests which can find changes in
the cervix that might lead to cancer. As part of the screening, women may have
Pap tests, HPV tests, or both.

### What are the treatments for HPV infections?

An HPV infection itself cannot be treated. There are medicines that you can
apply to a wart. If they don't work, your health care provide could freeze,
burn, or surgically remove it.

There are treatments for the cell changes caused by infection with high-risk
HPV. They include medicines that you apply to the area that is affected and
various surgical procedures.

People who have HPV-related cancers usually get the same types of treatment as
people who have cancers that are not caused by HPV. An exception to this is
for people who have certain oral and throat cancers. They may have different
treatment options.

### Can HPV infections be prevented?

Correct usage of latex condoms greatly reduces, but does not completely
eliminate, the risk of catching or spreading HPV. The most reliable way to
avoid infection is to not have anal, vaginal, or oral sex.

Vaccines can protect against several types of HPV, including some that can
cause cancer. The vaccines provide the most protection when people get them
before they are exposed to the virus. This means that it is best for people to
get them before they become sexually active.

NIH: National Cancer Institute

## Start Here

  * HPV (Human Papillomavirus) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (Food and Drug Administration) Also in Spanish
  * Human Papillomavirus (HPV) Vaccines ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Symptoms

  * Human Papillomavirus (HPV) Signs and Symptoms (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * HPV and HPV Testing (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
  * Human Papillomavirus (HPV) Screening (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Human Papillomavirus (HPV) Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

  * HPV Cancer Prevention ![Infographic](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Infographic.gif) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF
  * HPV Vaccine - Questions and Answers (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * HPV Vaccine Information for Young Women (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
  * HPV Vaccines: Vaccinating Your Preteen or Teen (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * ![new](https://medlineplus.gov/images/new.gif) Protecting Against HPV: Common Viruses Can Lead to Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * Understanding Cervical Changes: A Health Guide for Women ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

  * Frequently Asked Questions about HPV Vaccine Safety (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Specifics

  * HPV and Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
  * HPV and Cancer (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Human Papillomavirus (HPV) and Oropharyngeal Cancer (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
  * Recurrent Respiratory Papillomatosis or Laryngeal Papillomatosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders) Also in Spanish

## Videos and Tutorials

  * One Family's Struggles with HPV (Human Papillomavirus) ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Parents of Kids with Infectious Diseases)

## Statistics and Research

  * 2017 Sexually Transmitted Diseases Surveillance, Other Sexually Transmitted Diseases (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * How Many Cancers Are Linked with HPV Each Year? (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
  * HPV Vaccine: Access and Use in the U.S. (Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation)
  * HPV-Associated Cancers Statistics (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Papillomavirus Infections ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Papillomavirus Vaccines ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Clinico-pathological peculiarities of human papilloma virus driven head and neck squamous...
  * Article: Interventions to improve human papillomavirus vaccination among Chinese female college students:...
  * Article: Is there a role played by HLA-E, if any, in HPV...
  * HPV -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

  * American Cancer Society
  * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
  * National Cancer Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
  * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

  * HPV (Human Papillomavirus) Vaccine: What You Need to Know (American Academy of Pediatrics)

## Teenagers

  * HPV Vaccine (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Men

  * HPV and Men (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Women

  * HPV Vaccine and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

  * Cervical cancer -- screening and prevention (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Condom Fact Sheet in Brief (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
  * HPV and Cancer (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF
  * HPV DNA test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * HPV vaccine (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Pap and HPV Testing ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![HPV](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HPV.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Cervical cancer -- screening and prevention
  * Genital warts
  * HPV DNA test
  * HPV vaccine
  * Oral human papillomavirus infection

## Related Health Topics

  * Cervical Cancer
  * Cervical Cancer Screening
  * Genital Warts

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on HPV is the National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _HPV_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 6 April 2020 Topic last reviewed: 27 July 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

