

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

National Comprehensive Cancer Control Program (NCCCP)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# National Comprehensive Cancer Control Program (NCCCP)

Minus

Related Pages

![National Comprehensive Cancer Control Program. Collaborating to Conquer
Cancer. Stories from the
field.](/cancer/ncccp/images/ncccp-20-successstories-734x268.jpg)

Since 1998, CDC's National Comprehensive Cancer Control Program (NCCCP) has
provided the funding, guidance, and technical assistance that programs use to
design and implement impactful, strategic, and sustainable plans to prevent
and control cancer.

Watch this video to learn more about how the NCCCP puts cancer prevention and
control into action from CDC's Lisa Richardson, MD, MPH and Nikki Hayes, MPH.

About the Program

![Nikki Hayes, Chief, Comprehensive Cancer Control
Branch](/cancer/ncccp/images/ncccp-video-Nikki.jpg)

## The National Comprehensive Cancer Control Program Priorities

![Child receiving an HPV vaccine.](/cancer/ncccp/priorities/images/hpv-
vaccine-250.jpg)

Primary Prevention

![Photo of four cancer survivors.](/cancer/ncccp/priorities/images/positive-
cancer-survivors-250.jpg)

Early Detection and Treatment

![Photo of a cancer survivor.](/cancer/ncccp/priorities/images/cancer-
survivor-250.jpg)

Survivorship

![Photo of hands of several family members holding a
house.](/cancer/ncccp/priorities/images/hands-of-family-members-holding-
house-250.jpg)

Cross-Cutting Priorities

![A white desk office with the Cancer Causes and Control document, laptop,
smartphone and other supplies with cup of coffee.](/cancer/ncccp/images/CCC-
WhiteDesk.jpg)

New Publication in a Special Issue of _Cancer Causes and Control_

Map_01

State Cancer Plans

View your state's comprehensive cancer control plan.

Paper_03

Related Programs

Learn more about the different programs that support comprehensive cancer
control.

Paper_01

Featured Resources

Find the latest fact sheets, publications, and other CDC resources.

Tools_02

Partners

Learn more about our diverse partnerships.

Page last reviewed: January 28, 2019

Content source: Division of Cancer Prevention and Control,, Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention

home NCCCP

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About the Program expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Our History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Related Programs expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * NCCCP Technical Assistance and Training (DP18-1805)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Networking2Save (DP18-1808)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 20th Anniversary Celebration
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Carol Friedman Award
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * DP19-1906
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Priorities expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Emphasizing Primary Prevention of Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Promoting Early Detection and Treatment of Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Supporting Cancer Survivors and Caregivers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Cross-Cutting Priorities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Comprehensive Cancer Control Plans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Success Stories expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Photovoice Project Promotes HPV Vaccination Awareness Among Michigan Teens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Tribal Communities Learn How to Quit Commercial Tobacco Use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Partnership with Head Start Educates Parents and Protects Children from Harms of Tobacco
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Empowering Young Women to _Get the Facts About Gynecologic Cancer_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Michigan Tribal Clinics Aim to Snuff Out Commercial Tobacco Use Among Native American Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fond du Lac Builds a Smoke-free Culture of Health and Tradition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Schenectady County Workers Get More Recommended Cancer Screenings after Leave Expansion
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Burleigh County Pilots Treadmill Desk to Increase Employeesâ Physical Activity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Collaboration Leads to a Safer, Tobacco-Free Arkansas State Fair
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Complete Streets Initiative Addresses Physical Activity and Obesity in Louisiana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * South Dakota Outdoor Workers Practice Sun Safety to Prevent Skin Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * âThe Cancer You Can Preventâ Campaign Increases Colorectal Cancer Screening
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * More Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Featured Resources expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Cancer Plan Self-Assessment Tool
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CCC Branch Program Evaluation Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Colorectal Cancer Screening Rates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Pacific Island Collaboration Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Contact a Local Program

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

map_03  paper_03  paper_01  tools_02

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

