

Skip directly to search Skip directly to A to Z list Skip directly to
navigation Skip directly to page options Skip directly to site content

![Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People](/TemplatePackage/3.0/images/masthead_subpage.svg)
![Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People](/TemplatePackage/3.0/images/masthead_1-col.svg)

Start of Search Controls

Search Form Controls

TOPIC ONLY

Search The CDC

cancel submit

CDC A-Z Index

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * MENU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC A-Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * SEARCH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * #

Start of Search Controls

Search Form Controls

TOPIC ONLY

Search The CDC

cancel submit

## The Topic Is Cancer

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

### Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Colorectal (Colon) Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Breast Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cervical Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Lung Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Skin Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Other
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cancer Prevention and Control

# Best Remedy for COVID-19 Is Prevention

Posted on Monday, March 16, 2020 by DCPC

Recommend on Facebook Tweet
![Share](/TemplatePackage/3.0/images/social/addthis-32.png)ShareCompartir

Since coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) was first identified and named in
January, there has been a flurry of news articles and social media posts about
the respiratory illness, also known as COVID-19. The flood of information can
make it difficult to separate fact from fiction, and in a rapidly evolving
situation such as this, rumors and misinformation can be dangerous. This is
particularly true for people living with cancer, who may already have weakened
immune systems that place them at higher risk for developing serious
complications from the disease.

Itâs natural for people to search for answers and information in times of
uncertainty. Just make sure that your information sources are credible ones.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has an excellent site that is
updated daily with the latest information on COVID-19.

Donât fall for claims about remedies that will immunize or cure you of the
disease. While there isnât currently a vaccine or cure for coronavirus,
there is a lot that you can still do to protect yourself and your health. Many
of these are common practices that you already do every day.

**Avoid close contact.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Avoid close contact with people who are sick.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Put distance between yourself and other people if COVID-19 is spreading in your community. This is especially important for cancer survivors and people with other serious chronic conditions, who are at higher risk of getting very sick.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Avoid crowded locations like malls, theaters, and sports venues.

**Keep your hands clean.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds especially after you have been in a public place, or after blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * If soap and water are not readily available, use a hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol. Cover all surfaces of your hands and rub them together until they feel dry.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Avoid touching high-touch surfaces in public placesâelevator buttons, door handles, handrails, handshaking with people, etc. Use a tissue or your sleeve to cover your hand or finger if you must touch something.

**Make sure your health care team is also taking steps to protect you from
exposures.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Your health care providers should also practice frequent hand washing and, in some cases, wear masks, gowns, and/or gloves to avoid exposing you to bacteria, viruses, and other infection-causing agents.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * There is a wealth of information for cancer patients currently receiving treatment, cancer survivors, caregivers, and health care providers on how to prevent infection and support wellness on CDCâs preventcancerinfections.org.

**Clean and disinfect.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Clean AND disinfect frequently touched surfaces daily. This includes tables, doorknobs, light switches, countertops, handles, desks, phones, keyboards, toilets, faucets, and sinks.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * If surfaces are dirty, clean them: Use detergent or soap and water prior to disinfection.

**Avoid Nonessential travel.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Visit CDCâs site for the latest information and travel risks and restrictions.

Taking just a few precautions now is your best defense in preventing and
avoiding illness from this novel coronavirus.

**Additional Resources**

American Society of Clinical Oncology

World Health Organization



_Thanks in advance for your questions and comments on thisÂ The Topic is
CancerÂ post. Please note that the CDC does not give personal medical advice.
If you are concerned talk to your doctor._

_Have a question for CDC? CDC-INFO (http://www.cdc.gov/cdc-info/index.html)
offers live agents by phone and email to help you find the latest, reliable,
and science-based health information on more than 750 health topics._





Posted on Monday, March 16, 2020 by DCPC

Categories Other

* * *

###  190 comments on "Best Remedy for COVID-19 Is Prevention"

Comments listed below are posted by individuals not associated with CDC,
unless otherwise stated. These comments do not represent the official views of
CDC, and CDC does not guarantee that any information posted by individuals on
this site is correct, and disclaims any liability for any loss or damage
resulting from reliance on any such information. Read more about our comment
policy ».

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/0156bcef8e1a2a32be9ac3dcd4dbfd1e?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Patricia** says:

Monday, March 16, 2020 at 12:08 pm

Good, practical advice! I shared with my neighbors who have all been asking
for the best accurate source of information.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/becab302484c38f5804df93672c27774?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**GLYNN PRIDE** says:

Monday, March 16, 2020 at 12:38 pm

Do you have a by race breakdown of Covid-19?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/180c05077df268b921f1b7d3372f0660?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Kim** says:

Wednesday, March 18, 2020 at 7:22 pm

It's indiscriminate. Why does a race breakdown matter?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/348a7ecb3c8b226555496cc05e539a7d?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Andrea C.** says:

Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 1:09 pm

It is just a statistic, I think all statistics should be shown just for
information sake. It is not racist, it is just a fact. If you your intent in
USING the knowledge is racist then the result of that action would be racist.
I would be interested to see how many Native American or first nation people
have contracted it, or died from it in comparison to other cultures.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/9b42df41ce142ce583724585b4077b0a?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Shelie Jones** says:

Friday, March 27, 2020 at 3:52 pm

To verify that it is indeed indiscriminate.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/ecae5fd8d26c781d5b0c96913a2b914b?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Reesa** says:

Saturday, March 28, 2020 at 3:10 am

Because sometimes different things effect different races and maybe she wants
to know for her own race. I donât understand why it matters it is something
she would like to know.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/29132ce3f4d8fefd92cddabc6ea224a9?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**RR** says:

Wednesday, March 25, 2020 at 6:29 pm

Poorer socioeconomic status can be linked to health vulnerabilities such as
inability to purchase healthy food for a nutritious diet which in the US,
often parallels race in some states. Members of all racial groups do fall in
differing socio-economic categories but you can see it more clearly defined in
some states.  
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK425844/

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/5a57c023a3d51b4c4d06c3a744798319?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Paula Carlson** says:

Friday, March 27, 2020 at 3:17 pm

It is affecting the only race there is - the human race. If you are looking
for ethnicity, well, we are all a heinz 57 aren't we ð

WHO has a map on the Situation Report found at
https://www.who.int/docs/default-source/coronaviruse/situation-
reports/20200326-sitrep-66-covid-19.pdf?sfvrsn=9e5b8b48_2, and there are very
few areas NOT affected.

So in a nutshell, it doesn't care about ethnicity.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/5465d0244ed535d0fc04f1ce1885a2ea?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Joe** says:

Saturday, March 28, 2020 at 3:33 pm

Coronavirus doesn't discriminate it will infect every race no matter who you
ARE!!!!!

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/9276311baf1e2924df0ae633ce473ff1?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Marie s Strickland** says:

Tuesday, March 31, 2020 at 10:14 am

Why is this important

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/c2a1bc4de3113ca61a0ba6133cb9b521?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Virginia Belling** says:

Monday, March 16, 2020 at 12:47 pm

The information you provide and your ongoing  
updates are invaluable. Thank you!

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/697ccc957394c7aac0e655b3d8ed1845?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**DEBORAH CIESLEWSKI** says:

Monday, March 16, 2020 at 12:50 pm

HI, TAKE EVERY SAFETY PRECAUTION POSSIBLE DUE TO A AORTIC VALVE PROBLEM,,AND
LIVER DUCT ISSUES,IS THERE A TEST YOU CAN TAKE FOR THE COVID-19?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/2dd1d186af952007cebc93c08d96312f?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Julie Masters** says:

Friday, March 27, 2020 at 3:14 pm

There is a test that can be done at most hospitals and some doctor's offices
to determine if you have the virus. However, due to limited resources, you
will likely NOT be tested unless you show symptoms of the illness and have
tested negative for other illnesses with the same symptoms. It is recommended
to stay at home and manage any illness for as long as possible.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/a59df2925dc1fd4d96f9ccbf175e2e31?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Janice** says:

Monday, March 16, 2020 at 12:55 pm

I Have Stage 4 Squamous Cell Carcinoma Cancer Of The Head And Neck Complete
Rhinectomy , 13 Major Surgeries, 7 Weeks/35 Radiation Treatments Total 6,000
Units, And last July 31, 2019 Finished 40 Hyperbaric Oxygen Treatments For
Getting Immuniy, How Long Do I Wait To Get Tested ?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/ec3bb37c464e1d1756a5a00069211877?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Regina Toppi RN** says:

Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 12:46 pm

Only if you have exposure risk and symptoms

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/7144c82996ff0470bd8a66e3e662575c?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Mary E Krupa** says:

Monday, March 16, 2020 at 12:57 pm

Can you have the flu or cold and COVID19 at the same time?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/46716492d518186eba520ed7d44846f6?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Estacia Sinclair** says:

Friday, March 20, 2020 at 9:00 pm

Yes. You can have both COVID 19 and influenza at the same time. Theyâre
separate viruses. Just like it is possible to have both influenza A and
influenza B at the same time.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/b83fae2414bf260d2e6ec853cfca67b7?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Nancy Robinson** says:

Saturday, March 28, 2020 at 7:18 pm

Does Ibuprofen increase my risk of contracting the Corona Virus? This is all
over social media and I am prescribed it for chronic pain syndrome and
Fibromyalgia

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/6be9bbe9a9255953b4bddac0118dd654?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Cheryl Gilbert** says:

Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 2:06 pm

I would like to know the answer to that question also. I heard that ibuprofen,
naproxen, Advil, and so on and so forth, that these medicines make the
covid-19 worse! My sister takes it for underlying health issues.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/375f4dfc4c4e46d8f76ec49994afad41?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**David** says:

Friday, April 3, 2020 at 6:41 am

I to am searching for definitive answers to this question!  
Please show us the science!

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/9857a2ebb20f0b99821f73c8c091b551?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Alicia** says:

Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 10:26 am

My family and I are also wondering the same. Can anyone please advise?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/327e0e972ad1bb89a9f2cefb22daaa4e?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Kathy Myers, RN** says:

Monday, March 16, 2020 at 12:57 pm

Appreciate concise, current update on this critical issue. PLEASE continue
regular bulletins.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/d41f8690be49ee27062bb50238271989?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Jenny Jahraus** says:

Monday, March 16, 2020 at 1:32 pm

I am amazed and disappointed that in this article on prevention that there is
no mention of diet and micronutrients in regards to staying healthy and
maintaining resilience to disease. I would expect the CDC to at least mention
Americans eating a diet pertaining to " My Plate " and leaving out sugar and
empty calorie foods.

Also there is no mention of exercise that helps our bodies health and
resilience to disease.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/35c6b6a88c2204c81ad2d8793bb2a5fc?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Linda** says:

Monday, March 16, 2020 at 6:09 pm

I've been reminding kids to be sure to get the recommended amount of sleep for
their age, eat plenty of fruits and veges and other healthful foods and to get
outside, get fresh air and exercise. I'm also surprised that the focus has
been on hand washing, etc and not also on basic daily proactive ways to avoid
getting sick by having a healthy body.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/feca9c348a6e98e8f0f7a5360f2a05ea?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**David** says:

Friday, March 27, 2020 at 4:19 pm

If your hands are not clean it doesnât matter how heathy your food is.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/92b3703c04a3218ee79a4da1dfb6a7b7?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Ben** says:

Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 1:41 pm

Thanks Jenny this was a helpful and productive comment.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/60ae939f30b5bc07ece68ba8605d9397?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Jaz** says:

Saturday, March 21, 2020 at 9:56 pm

Good question, Jenny. I was wondering the same. (Meanwhile, raw, vegan, lots
of garlic … helps with social distancing : )

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/3e051d22eb703d956ac799252c86edd1?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Wendy M** says:

Monday, March 23, 2020 at 10:09 am

Agreeing with your post.  
I think they're should be mention of what one can do and take to build up
immune system.  
This is also a critical part of prevention

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/5d63098c154eb70c59c1dd6c0e848e80?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Karen Morison** says:

Monday, March 23, 2020 at 3:21 pm

In a situation like this, people need virus specific information, not
generalized, broad recommendations which donât have anything more to do with
preventing this virus than they do helping to prevent numerous other
illnesses. That is not the job of publishing health in the case like this
where hundreds of millions worldwide are trying to prevent a virus that is
previously unknown and about which the public feels it knows very little. Just
telling someone to âeat healthy and get exercise,â etc., is not helpful.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/a603039a494c3fb4c4887f1a2943a68f?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Lov** says:

Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 9:25 pm

THANK YOU. Everyone knows they should eat healthy and exercise, and their
habits now are what they are. Using this pandemic to preach about anything
other than what people can do to prevent contracting a deadly virus dilutes
and obfuscates CoVid19 specific instructions. That is harmful. Now you know.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/bd62220dba9f1aa5815bc5fb45bbc451?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**SR327** says:

Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:18 am

Theyâre not the FDA. Look to them for those answers

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/29fccba16dc923354c1092828aa67f8e?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Rebecca Rowan** says:

Monday, March 16, 2020 at 1:32 pm

We have been told that anyone with COVID19 should not take ibuprofen for any
reason. Ibuprofen makes it worse. Tylenol should only be used. Is this true?
Thank you

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/ebc2feeb763d359a6eb52ee0f201c2dd?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Charity Lambert** says:

Wednesday, March 18, 2020 at 12:24 am

Iâm also seeking an a answer concerning this since I take daily more than
twice usually

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/38754cb3808073b9e017e1809d6670f8?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**M. Mustard** says:

Wednesday, March 18, 2020 at 7:28 am

Told by whom? What is the medical validated reason for this statement?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/35714bad318a4eb519268dca87ecefd6?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Christina Miller** says:

Wednesday, March 18, 2020 at 2:22 pm

Did you all get an answer?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/90be2835ae22157cef8b2cc2ce84b27a?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Mitzi Hatfield** says:

Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 10:49 am

CAN YOU TAKE IBUPROFEN FOR A HEADACHE ? I have heard it hastens the virus that
Tylenol is the drug of choice

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/90be2835ae22157cef8b2cc2ce84b27a?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Mitzi Hatfield** says:

Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 10:52 am

No not so far . Did you ????

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/2f82ca454921e84264c28c3d34f6253b?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**SueW** says:

Wednesday, March 18, 2020 at 5:38 pm

Did anyone respond to the ibuprofen question? Is it safe?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/e9fe4311e192358206924b04cb643915?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Matt** says:

Saturday, March 28, 2020 at 12:26 pm

There has been anecdotal reports advocating the avoidance of Ibuprofen and all
NSAID's which has not been back by scientific study's. That said there are
alternative ways to manage fever and comfort to include acetaminophen, and
other non-pharmaceutical means.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/45906f16d77340e2b2321325c5f69a83?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Dawn Garman** says:

Wednesday, March 18, 2020 at 5:53 pm

I have heard this also and would like to know some facts!

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/9c2ff79d3b4ecc36e94bc6eee4ebb317?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Robert Welsh** says:

Wednesday, March 18, 2020 at 11:42 pm

At the moment it is mixed due to the reporting in
https://www.sciencealert.com/who-recommends-to-avoid-taking-ibuprofen-for-
covid-19-symptoms

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/0149db1f7a77debdbeaed3a90644591d?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Sheri Beatty** says:

Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 5:31 pm

WHO updated as of 3/1/20 and said that and Iâm putting in quotes,

âAt present, based on currently available information, WHO does not
recommend AGAINST the use of ibuprofen. We are also consulting with physicians
treating COVID-19 patients and are not aware of reports of any negative
effects of ibuprofen beyond the usual known side effects that limit its use in
certain populations. WHO is not aware of published clinical or population-
based data on this topic.â

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/ec3c4beb216c4a8dd32568bc9fde575d?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Erin Watters** says:

Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 12:08 am

I take 800mg of Ibuprofen 3 times a day to manage a connective tissue disorder
and chronic pain…today I heard this same rumor from a co-worker, so I came to
the CDC website seeking clarification, and as of yet, have found none. Please
clarify.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/0e0ac6e8bc11cbcece093c7bb3260303?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Ken** says:

Wednesday, March 25, 2020 at 3:32 pm

It was just a tweet from the French Minister of Health in reference to 4 cases
only. Appears that 4 healthy people died from the virus and the doctor had no
answers as to why. The only thing he concluded was that they had taken
Ibuprofen. There have been no studies done. It's not substantiated by CDC,
WHO, or FDA.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/370b8f10f38d1ddab1a9be1a482b3cec?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Nancy** says:

Saturday, March 28, 2020 at 7:41 am

I too am concerned since I take Advil PM to get a good night sleep weekly. Are
there any answers for this?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/375f4dfc4c4e46d8f76ec49994afad41?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**David** says:

Friday, April 3, 2020 at 6:50 am

See the post from Mr. Welsh above…

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/f15596ff2bf165e614908f47098f4a9f?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**JB** says:

Friday, March 20, 2020 at 12:47 pm

That is what I wondered also. But I have not found it on this site, so I
figure it is just more incorrect information.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/1b7a8874eb77b670e03d88cd913c4728?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Pamela Heming** says:

Friday, March 20, 2020 at 4:01 pm

Does the use of Tylenol or other fever reducers effect the state of the Corona
Virus?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/fb5905f61252ab1750f92951be20fa31?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Dawn Swain** says:

Saturday, March 21, 2020 at 4:04 pm

Iâm looking for the same guidance, WHO clarified that they donât have any
evidence of ibuprofen worsening the symptoms of COVID-19 but it was not
affirmative.  
I hope the CDC can address this concern as ibuprofen works welll to reduce
high fevers.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/0b7d964cb4c2b8b917c082693a803822?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Sandra w goodman** says:

Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 9:21 pm

Interesting all of us are asking the same question Advil vs Tylenol an no
definite answer!!

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/a001a7ad798484f3759dbb152440df26?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Matt** says:

Friday, March 27, 2020 at 9:50 am

Any response from a professional at CDC regarding Ibuprofen?

Matt

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/3de3ab987771d0f066285dcd4d607f55?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Kelley Johnson** says:

Saturday, March 28, 2020 at 2:32 pm

Yes, I came looking for the same answer!

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/2c1da3e64d9683c864c7e3c415b1ebf3?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Sheila Parks** says:

Monday, March 30, 2020 at 11:04 pm

So many comments and I have yet to see a reply from CDC regarding the taking
of ibuprophen.  
Can someone reply to this plesase?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/74cba43df27fe53d1cdecd6846339bf2?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Deidre Mimbs** says:

Friday, March 27, 2020 at 2:24 pm

I'm on hold with the CDC to try to see if this is propaganda or not. I take
Ibuprofen 800 pretty regularly for Chronic pain. Tylenol doesn't do anything
for me. Plus regularly taken it gives rebound headaches.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/4a64874e93d318bc70c86d4f2c19cf43?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Diane Withrow** says:

Friday, March 27, 2020 at 7:11 pm

Iâm looking as well. For those of you on high dosages of ibuprofen- I too
was prescribed high dosage following a car accident. After 10+ months my
stomach lining became extremely compromised. I can no longer take it at all
and have had bleeding ulcers and other stomach issues. I believe the
prescription of high dosage ibuprofen is one result of conservative approaches
to pain management due to opioid addiction. Please be aware of the risks!!! I
got here searching the same topic to warn loved ones. Thanks for listening. I
too want the answer to this question.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/48e2e15d56a168d0c2d03b65aeef3fb0?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Lilli Senesac** says:

Sunday, March 22, 2020 at 10:15 am

Yes, Iâm on 3200 mg of Ibuprofen a day and so Iâm searching for a correct
answer, also.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/c13147cf2c9b15596b2fffaa4c5a34a8?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**ANNE BOLLOCK** says:

Saturday, March 28, 2020 at 7:49 am

I have been trying to research the ibprophen myself and so far this is the
best article I have
https://www.google.com/amp/s/health.usnews.com/conditions/articles/coronavirus-
and-ibuprofen-what-to-know%3Fcontext%3Damp

Virus too new and very good research not available yet.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/0c2a196ef35ef321044902fd7af97420?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Linda** says:

Friday, March 27, 2020 at 10:32 am

I just heard this too. What is the truth about the use of ibuprofen and
COVID19?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/92137313691b43a1e173be45720aa02b?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Teresa** says:

Friday, March 27, 2020 at 1:09 pm

Did the CDC answer your question about Advil?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/446814dfba27548379d4b210e23e462a?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Lilia** says:

Friday, March 27, 2020 at 5:42 pm

https://twitter.com/WHO/status/1240409217997189128?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.buzzfeednews.com%2Farticle%2Fjanelytvynenko%2Fcoronavirus-
fake-news-disinformation-rumors-hoaxes

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/647b7f6c021a0c4d621a8b3298aeed63?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Ken** says:

Friday, March 27, 2020 at 5:55 pm

No response here, but I found this: https://www.healthline.com/health-
news/what-to-know-about-ibuprofen-and-covid-19

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/6ddb990bb834c46fdae63fef7727db29?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Heidi** says:

Saturday, March 28, 2020 at 9:52 am

Why is there no clear answer to this question? I can't take Tylenol, and am
also one of many taking ibuprofen daily for pain and inflammation. There is a
lot of hype being passed around warning us against taking ibuprofen… Please
shed some light on this. We need to know!

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/544645b503df9f8a042f3a80372164a5?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Dana** says:

Sunday, March 29, 2020 at 12:31 pm

I have been trying to find this se information. My friends daughter works ar
the hospital and they are telling them this information but it is
disappointing that there is nothing about it on this site. Sigh. I wish they
would either confirm or debunk.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/50b5c0802a3a756e3f4ed4cfc91ebcb9?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**ycn6** says:

Monday, March 16, 2020 at 2:58 pm

Thank you for your questions and comments. For more information about COVID19
please refer to https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-nCoV/index.html.

If you think you have been exposed to COVID-19 and develop a fever and
symptoms, such as a cough or difficulty breathing, call your healthcare
provider for medical advice.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/95eaed4c1914966840d0e0ccd853e015?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Helene Kendler** says:

Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 10:41 am

Your reply does not answer the question that everyone on this thread has been
asking: is it true that ibuprofen and naproxen can worsen the symptoms of
Covid-19, and that only Tylenol should be used for headaches and to reduce
fevers? There are conflicting reports in the media, and it would be important
for the CDC to clarify this. Thank you.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/0d68c8c855cfa3526a336274013d7284?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Catherine Andersen** says:

Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 10:53 pm

Sending us back to the main page doesnât answer the question about
ibuprofen. We need an answer.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/80aeee407682b64e120fe0a69f6b80e8?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Barbara s Lucas** says:

Friday, March 27, 2020 at 11:34 am

I cannot find anything on the cdc site about ibuprofen and covid 19. Tylenol
never seems to work for me so I normally use Aleve. So if I start to feel bad,
do I need to switch to tylenol?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/fe15e496a21bacdeeb356be6bd602e75?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Susie** says:

Friday, March 27, 2020 at 12:24 pm

The question about ibuprofen has still not been answered. Will the CDC please
clarify.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/952a3968cc478ebd18669ac383f2f786?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Nancy B.** says:

Friday, March 27, 2020 at 9:01 pm

I have been to the area your link leads to, I can't find anything about
ibuprofen there. Can you be more specific as to were information is located?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/3557fe7e242b2a6d4a9d4459f0eac731?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Amy Zion** says:

Saturday, March 28, 2020 at 10:11 pm

There is no information on this site that I could find about if Ibuprofen
makes the symptoms worse. Please advise.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/f6885561d3740ab6028b6032c8f016a2?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Gini** says:

Monday, March 16, 2020 at 3:30 pm

Is an aquatic class at the gym safe to go too?Since this virus causes
pneumonia would the pneumonia vaccine help the elderly?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/9d6c911b86f115b39006763e61f3fd81?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Elizabeth Martin** says:

Monday, March 16, 2020 at 5:47 pm

With the current findings of people who have tested positive with no symptoms
you need to avoid everyone not just those who are sick. Many do not even know
they are sick. At least for a while.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/86dba5485917807441274331426706d8?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Cyndi** says:

Monday, March 16, 2020 at 6:03 pm

What is the best way to handle a patient getting treatments that has alot of
anxiety about the COVID-19?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/3e5fcf889b1259fbaf0878c856dce6e4?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Kathy G** says:

Monday, March 16, 2020 at 6:54 pm

Is any data available regarding percentage of older adults who have contracted
COVID 19 and recovered? We are receiving data of deaths specific to seniors,
and total recovery, but Iâd like to see the percentage number of seniors
that recover.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/6678d60e45973e79f5cc8a0ea60070eb?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Jayro Guimaraes Jr** says:

Monday, March 16, 2020 at 6:58 pm

How about dentistÂ´s office aerosol. The need to treat several patiens, one
after other, can make it difficult to properly disinfect surfaces.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/a68bdc3fa15c84ca35d330983b80a23c?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Bernard L Fontaine, Jr., CIH, CSP, FAIHA** says:

Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 10:29 am

There are so many care givers that need to be extra careful around the elderly
and infirmed via medication, disease or illness. Visitors should have empathy
to care for neighbors but at a distance or using telephone, text, email
without direct contact. Emergency planning should be used by assisted living
and retirement communities to check on residents who may not be able to use
technology by using available health care services, security, and, if
necessary local emergency services. Individuals who will residing with family
and friends temporarily should notify other neighbors and security of their
temporary change of residence. While these facilities may have business
continuity plans to maintain essential medical and health services, emergency
preparedness and readiness should extent to this population.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/f40d7a295a7a43d5d8aa22657efd177a?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Angie Callihan** says:

Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 3:16 pm

I keep hearing Ibuprofen, steroids and elderberry make COVID 19 worse and to
only take Tylenol. Why isnât this being addressed if itâs true or false
with so many people posting this info?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/90be2835ae22157cef8b2cc2ce84b27a?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Mitzi Hatfield** says:

Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 10:54 am

Did you ever get a definitive answer ???

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/bbd4c454ed4bfabb61ec467c90a87266?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Debbie Young** says:

Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 11:14 pm

I was wanting information on elderberry trying to find right answer came and
see nothing

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/b0ce5c0759a8a6f922607d36a99c22a6?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**barb h** says:

Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 3:36 pm

One issue that I have not seen covered are the no option doctor appointments
where the waiting room is packed, elbow to elbow, with people there for
(hopefully) a doctor approved visit yet they still schedule patients for 15-20
minutes appointments, then get behind, resulting in everyone in the waiting
room being exposed to a variety of germs.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/610335394546fad263026f803607d50a?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Brian Robinson** says:

Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 10:19 pm

Can or can you not take ibprophen for systems of Cov-19? I read that France
and the UK health ministry have said no.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/a0c1c965b1d980dc0061a08770594383?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Michael Silvio** says:

Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 10:50 pm

Thank you for this practical information. Will share. Sadly, not all
physicians and health teams practice washing hands on an everyday basis. How
do we ensure that they practice it now? In Mississippi, I've had my physcian
team tell me that they don't beleive in washing their hands; it was just a
waste of time. Of course, we know that isn't true.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/4abff2aa5f08af9bce1a34e8aebe5af8?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**JWen** says:

Wednesday, March 18, 2020 at 11:55 am

Seriously? Eew & dangerous especially since you work at a medical facility
where people expect staff to be sanitary. Please practice extra precaution
during this time!

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/5d63098c154eb70c59c1dd6c0e848e80?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Karen Morison** says:

Monday, March 23, 2020 at 3:27 pm

To be perfectly honest, it is malpractice for a licensed physician or an RN to
say that or act on it. It absolutely does Mair a difference and while we
havenât tested for every bit of info that is put out there (something most
lay people and media would be surprised to know), we have actually tested
this. Get a different doctor and complain to your state medical board.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/e587e090fe73b84f675b448e137c28c8?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Vanessa** says:

Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 11:18 pm

Is Ibuprofen bad to take for Coronavirus?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/50fd7fdb73164f08c2c44a5c13883402?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**hellifino** says:

Wednesday, March 18, 2020 at 1:44 am

I work for a Corporate Independent Retirement Community with over 200
residents. I have been informed by Management I am only to wear a face
mask/eye shield only after I have contracted a virus/flu. At that time I am
not permitted to work once sick. My thinking is I should be proactive and not
reactive in the event of possibly being exposed to COVID19. Why are all the
news showing instances of 1st responders and medical people are all wearing
masks, am I to assume they are all infected and that is why they are wearing
masks?

There seems to be quite a bit of confusion concerning this matter. If I am
exposed to residents sneezing & coughing in my presence what is to be my point
of protection considering the load exposure and the fact this is an airborne
virus. So is it my right to wear a proper approved mask or not in this
instance at me place of employment?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/d1e844588e2436523720b15baea1ee56?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Essie A** says:

Wednesday, March 18, 2020 at 7:14 am

Is it safe for a woman have a mammogram screening during this time?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/6c91c25a01bffc0c4e1712470ccace38?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Stella** says:

Friday, March 27, 2020 at 8:09 pm

I had a mammo done a few weeks ago, the office was empty the technician wore
gloves, her tech clothes, i had on a gown top. Thinking back, even though not
symptomatic, one of us should have worn a mask, she got close to me, but I
turned my head away when she did. So far Iâm healthy.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/c7b77093f10583623da62ac501e3b670?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Devorah Yaffe** says:

Wednesday, March 18, 2020 at 7:21 am

I would like to know if it had been established that Tylenol or Advil are both
safe or patients with corona virus?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/c6ad9e56d58e23f8b3900f605c6216eb?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Dennis Law** says:

Wednesday, March 18, 2020 at 1:48 pm

Any medications to avoid. There a few claims on avoiding taking Ibuprofen,
Motrin, Aleve, Naproxen.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/70a698fdd9f82d6184e7100aa933571c?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Florida Fan** says:

Monday, March 30, 2020 at 7:03 pm

I'm searching here for same information! If we are to avoid these medications,
the CDC needs to immediately release a warning to all!

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/c1c7b7793a9cf1109e648e26755c2206?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Christina Miller** says:

Wednesday, March 18, 2020 at 2:20 pm

What is the medications that arenât working well with this virus or are
suppressing the immune system? Such as Losartan and Ibuprofen? Ibuprofen is
being talked about a lot so that is the main question

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/4cbc4cf03402cfc8164298672eed18a0?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Kathy** says:

Wednesday, March 18, 2020 at 2:32 pm

Is it ok to take ibuprofen for the coronavirus

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/d9a7903b3ccd9880ea854fce571ec9c7?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Brenda** says:

Wednesday, March 18, 2020 at 3:32 pm

question: there are post saying taking Ibuprofen should not be taken as it
makes corona virus worse. Is this CDC advice?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/8d80c14b517948393aa72ed5e300441b?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Marlene Hinrichs** says:

Wednesday, March 18, 2020 at 6:39 pm

We live in White Rock, NM and have only one grocery store. It is Smith's.
People have hoarded food and supplies so badly that we can't get what we need.
We have nowhere else to go since we are told that we would be wasting our time
because all of the stores in our area have shortages. What are we supposed to
do when we can't get food to eat? That's what it looks like is happening here,
and we keep being told that we don't have to worry about food shortages-there
is plenty of food to be had. Well, NO, THERE ISN'T IN NEW MEXICO! Someone
please answer this comment if you have information to share about it. The CDC
doesn't even list the topic! WE NEED FOOD AND SUPPLIES TO LIVE ON!

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/d481f70e910006d5e85f4523a826b4a6?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Deanna** says:

Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 10:50 am

Is it possible for you to order things online? I would get rice, pasta and
canned veggies.  
I just checked Amazon and they have alot of those items I mentioned. Also, for
harder  
to find items, do you have family or friends that can ship some items to you?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/7d5c925fbf1135ee146b3f8cec5994f5?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Retha** says:

Wednesday, March 18, 2020 at 9:42 pm

Coronavirus concerns:  
I am a cancer and leukemia survivor. A relative lives with me and is employed
by a daycare center that currently has no plans of closing. Many of the
parents of the children are known to be world travelers. Should I ask my
relative to stop working now while she lives with me? Is there a waiver that
she can use so that she will continue to be paid if she stops? Thanks a lot
for your response.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/58249c1e38eb8c2b85ace6d3d75ad161?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Jacqueline Sanchez** says:

Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 1:07 am

Hi I have an idea for PPE on testing sites build two extra tents. One for
soiled equipment with 20 or 30 washing machines/have these individuals
handling the soiled/dirty clothes and clean well trained on cross
contamination. Second tent with clothes dryers. Gowns could be fabric and
constantly washed and reused. For face shield buy welding mask/hats that can
be washed down and properly sanitized maybe use the fog their using to
disinfect schools. For face mask you can use the same N95 all day per RN for
multiple uses as itâll be covered By the welding face shield. Only
disposable between each patient gloves……. if you train healthcare workers
properly to prevent cross contamination on removing PPE properly and
disinfecting itâll work.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/54c61a952fbd4c7f436228fc91c681ea?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Jane** says:

Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 1:53 am

Why are there not more tests ready for those who think they might have
Covid19?  
Why are there not more testing facilities to process these tests?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/68db98f99ecf57031646a4a02cb7d7aa?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Mehrdil Durrani** says:

Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:48 am

V.Good site dishing out most useful information + advice on various medical
conditions. 10/10.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/f597dc3bfde2ba74dffd7286ff2781b4?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Jenn** says:

Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 12:07 pm

Good morning! As a pharmacist, I have had questions regarding the a facebook
post that stated not to take ibuprofen if you haeve COVID 19. Any guidance on
this? Thank you.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/50b5c0802a3a756e3f4ed4cfc91ebcb9?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**ycn6** says:

Friday, March 20, 2020 at 12:18 pm

Thank you all for your comments. Frequently asked questions about COVID19 can
be found at https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/faq.html.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/19b756fa4991aa901cbad4f0d9e99d6a?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Ed C** says:

Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 3:37 pm

This sort of canned answer is singularly unhelpful. Please address specific
questions, in order to be helpful to the public. Thanks!

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/640f2249e887e04a1fe9d510ed4846a5?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Nancie** says:

Sunday, March 29, 2020 at 3:48 pm

The question being asked is "Can you take Advil or Ibuprofen if you have
Covid19?"  
The frequently asked questions does not address this question.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/06eac32dacbd439b6e701404bca66b5a?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Pamela Stephens** says:

Friday, March 20, 2020 at 1:30 pm

Question: if you survive COVID-19 are you now immune ?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/75caa117eb46b062758a7518638cc6f1?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Bertha Gluth Rogers** says:

Friday, March 20, 2020 at 4:36 pm

Why is there no information on what to take for the fever.? Tylenol
vs.Ibuprofen?? This information of just stay home and call your primary care
is not enough for those of us with elder parents.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/b03df2860a08f1a1fc7d3b20db961453?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Gwen** says:

Friday, March 20, 2020 at 4:42 pm

Is it Safe to take ibuprofen with the Coronavirus? And what is the Best Fever
and Pain reducer…? Please and Thank You!

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/1a6b128c1d8fd9eb1f0734f7cff29dc1?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Sallie** says:

Saturday, March 21, 2020 at 9:52 am

Where is there information on what to do if you have the symptons. lots of
talk about tylenol and other OTCs, but can't find any real info on CDC site.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/29a42670ee6e1791dc37a8c703931a4b?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**BuddyS1** says:

Wednesday, March 25, 2020 at 3:20 pm

I havenât read anything negative concerning taking or not taking Ibuprofen
from any reputable website. IF I happen to get a fever and/or body aches Iâm
going to take either ibuprofen, acetaminophen, and/or naproxen to tryân keep
fever and body aches down. Until or Unless I here not to from the CDC or a
licensed MD, physician! Lotsa misinformation out there

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/7312d3cbb3882bde817db6f8140e7ca6?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Jerry** says:

Saturday, March 21, 2020 at 5:51 pm

Is it safe to buy fresh fruit and vegetables from a grocery store? Should they
be washed before consuming?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/7ff137c43c899be80dd376174702af55?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Suzanne** says:

Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 6:33 pm

Well, if you don't wash fresh produce, you will potentially be eating someone
else's boogers and butt sweat. Of course you wash your produce!

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/207e6768157e0bd7a420fb92b7a3ed49?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Sonya** says:

Wednesday, March 25, 2020 at 4:05 am

Fruits and vegetables should always be washed before consumption, before,
during and after Covid 19.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/fe2dc9949e82ebdff93efe5a39a14d4d?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Kathy Furtado** says:

Friday, March 27, 2020 at 3:59 pm

Should we eat fresh fruits and vegetables not home-grown?  
Yes! But be aware that others might have touched the item and so peel it or
wash or rinse it with mild dish soap before serving or eating. And always wash
your hands after handling anything that might have been touched by others
before you eat.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/489180d975183ce0de33f3cd1ce49bba?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Jason Stevens** says:

Saturday, March 21, 2020 at 11:43 pm

Is it safe to take Ibuprofen if you have COVID-19?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/f1c2e26046bf943da6fc3a64cf182c1e?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Ralph Bougher** says:

Sunday, March 22, 2020 at 2:19 am

The first sentence is incorrect.

The virus was first identified in early/mid-December. The Dr in China that
first recognized this virus as a serious problem was arrested, then released,
and later died of the disease he discovered.

Very late in December the Chinese Government gave samples to the WHO, and it
was quickly verified as a Novel Corona Virus.

It was not "first identified and name in January."

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/d313fc1d52144a3b665b97f09290ab74?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Gina** says:

Sunday, March 22, 2020 at 12:21 pm

Is Arithomyosin a cure option as my grand daughter is pregnant and her doctor
wants to give her 2 meds to try. It donât sound right

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/93afe41e1dd0b3979407ba34b5ab3f9f?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**D** says:

Sunday, March 22, 2020 at 5:04 pm

I heard that while we are dealing with coronavirus that we should stay away
from ibuprofen, Aleve, was told that some ingredient in those somehow attract
COVID19 is that true? Also, I am a Cancer patient and have asthma and am 66
years old. and I share a house with 2 others that don't take COVID19
seriously. They go out and come back and don't do what is told we should do. I
have told them that this is serious and I am at HIGH RISK but they don't care.
So I stay in my room with my dog and bleach everything every other day. I also
purchased an ultraviolet sanitizer that kills bacteria and viruses. Will that
help me at all? I am just trying to do the right thing for myself.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/e87f34a2a0569954efa0fed69ce872b5?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Bridget** says:

Sunday, March 22, 2020 at 6:29 pm

There are news going around that ibuprofen is not safe to take if you have
coronavirus, is this true?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/cbeaed7e3023cbb6c1fab0295193935a?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Barbara** says:

Monday, March 23, 2020 at 6:01 pm

Whatâs the sense of having this question and answer website when I see
people have been asking for a week if ibuprofens are safe with Covid-19 and it
still has t been answered ?  
Should people take ibuprofen or Tylenol if they find that they have a fever.
??

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/341c096ae65ec0d8498bd507bee9930f?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Dee** says:

Monday, March 23, 2020 at 8:28 pm

Hello! Can someone PLEASE confirm the rumors about Advil/ibuprofen?!

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/d34c448ad2b219ee447d29e07a1ef451?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Bernie** says:

Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 12:11 am

Build up your Immune system, Give up junk food, sodas, smoking! Eat organic
fresh fruits and vegetables,  
No health profession is saying this, We are a country who are grabbing up the
can and processed food, I can always find fresh fruits and vegetables in the
grocery stores, Please professional grow up and tell everyone to get healthy!

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/e9fe4311e192358206924b04cb643915?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Matt** says:

Saturday, March 28, 2020 at 12:15 pm

Flash frozen produce and meats are known to maintains nutrients greater than
"fresh" (unless it was picked off the vine within 2-3 days of purchase).

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/e336398268a5cb28789ca29c9ae89e96?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Cindy** says:

Tuesday, March 31, 2020 at 9:35 am

Not everyone can afford fresh vegetables and fruits. Seniors live on a very
tight budget, those items are luxuries. Plus they shouldnât be going out
every week for groceries due to their weak immune systems.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/bfb96171e32eeb0976b85571c56b9e4d?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**GD** says:

Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 9:37 am

Hello all,  
It is obvious by the lack of replies from a so call trusted source to answer
your very concerning questions on is taking ibuprofen, Tylenol , etc. safe to
take. The best answer to that is CONTACT YOUR HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONAL
DIRECTLY. They will be the best authority on your individual situation.  
I myself have received these FALSE and MISLEADING social media treads stating
it's from a reliable source to not take these or other over the counter or
prescribed medications. THEY ARE ALL FAKE NEWS!  
Rest assured that there is no such evidence that any of those statements on
social media are true or factual and are from someone's friend of a friend who
is a nurse, or janitor who has first hand info. USE YOUR COMMON SENSE HERE
PEOPLE.  
If in doubt call your own healthcare professional for advice. Your Doctor
knows best for you.  
Remember keep calm, relax and don't worry about this madness that has taken
over to mass hysteria. It will be all over soon. Wishing everyone the best.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/13c7fca4e68d0cec4204169e065f9504?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Sarah** says:

Tuesday, March 31, 2020 at 12:24 pm

I did just that you know what my health care provider said? They said they
think itâsok but they really donât know for sure!!! So itâsa guessing
game for them as well!! No one knows the facts about ibuprofen and other
nsaids is what Iâm being told! By my…. health care professionals!!! So I go
by what I see dress from Italy or NY posting!! Which I feel indicates that it
causes the Corona to create pneumonia!! If you know any different please
advise

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/081dcf9e7634fddbd1dbbb5345d5190e?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Phyllis Briggs** says:

Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 12:47 pm

What is the relationship between NSAIDS and COVID19. Receiving messages no
Advil to treat symptoms as " virus thrives on Ibuprofen" and " induces
Pneumonia"

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/283b0b1a16f02f21011c35a8c5c02c6f?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Pegi DeMeo** says:

Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 1:05 pm

I had the same question about Ibuprofen and I'm shocked that this has not be
answered on this blog. This is what I found on New Jersey's official COVID-19
site and I just confirmed it on the phone with them. It sounds a bit confusing
because of the double negatives, but it basically says that WHO has not
gathered enough data to make a formal recommendation, but as of now they are
NOT saying to avoid it. However, even though WHO isn't recommending for or
against it, the woman on the phone suggested acetaminophen instead until they
gather more information:

"Over-the-counter options for fever reducers include ibuprofen and
acetaminophen. The World Health Organization (WHO) has clarified that it does
NOT recommend AGAINST the use of ibuprofen as a self-medication for treating
fever or pain linked to COVID-19. WHO is gathering more data before making a
formal recommendation.

Patients who have been prescribed anti-inflammatory drugs should talk to their
doctors or healthcare providers before changing any medications."

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/4ce93634740ad6f2806d0721bccd05f3?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Jay** says:

Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 2:19 pm

What is the suggestion for family caregivers, in regards to the Covid 19 virus

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/1711ccb94bc6fd555b42a49486aad9ff?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**E. Forgacs** says:

Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 3:20 pm

Many people are currently saying not to use Advil/anti-inflammetories for
Covid19 sxs. Is that true.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/207e6768157e0bd7a420fb92b7a3ed49?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Sonya** says:

Wednesday, March 25, 2020 at 4:02 am

Why arenât restaurants and grocery being given specific guidelines on how to
keep themselves and the members of the communities they service safe?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/b8a7d84a60a06a311f208519e8cc3a38?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Clara** says:

Wednesday, March 25, 2020 at 11:03 am

I have been seeing in Facebook that Advil makes the Corona virus from mild to
severe. If this is not true, I wish the CDC will let the public know. Your
thoughts please.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/667989132564fe3b75dc74436e3826a8?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Joyce** says:

Monday, March 30, 2020 at 5:25 pm

I would like to know the answer to this myself.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/49f7b35fe3412d0b97454680a1237457?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Tiffany** says:

Tuesday, March 31, 2020 at 3:45 pm

Yes! I need to know the truth!

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/b4d30c58fee664b2462452438a5daab4?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Donald Fox MD** says:

Wednesday, March 25, 2020 at 12:10 pm

In case it hasn't been considered, with respect to higher mortalities in
males, consideration should be given to facial hair (beards). The progression
of respiratory distress leads through nasal O2 to masks to ventilators. Given
that nursing care is very stretched its likely that men do not get shaven in a
timely way once they cannot do personal hygiene for themselves. A beard
growing behind a mask presents an increased surface area to harbor exhaled
virus which is then recycled back into the lungs as an increase in viral load.
An unshaven face could be considered a break from essential personal hygiene
especially in a critical care setting.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/88eff541532d4eaceef3991e8d01b490?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Lisa Turtle** says:

Wednesday, March 25, 2020 at 11:03 pm

Thank you for providing this helpful resource. I will share with my family and
friends. We appreciate your care and hard work.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/ae4770fad863f804842fc8be6e06dab9?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Harold Adams** says:

Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 7:43 am

I have witnessed cashiers at grocery stores for example coming into contact
say with 100 people per hour. These people or sector of employment needs to be
addressed. They themselves should be provided with extra protection and
guidelines due to the high amount of human contact at close contact.

WE NEED TO PROTECT THESE PEOPLE.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/7c0a3efc776f2c5b2e6718cc9d1ac747?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**kimberly a ruth** says:

Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 7:44 am

please confirm or deny that ibuprofen can worsen viral infection. When will
you have this info?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/d3018720fb7357993c531ab15458bc96?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Geneva Scott** says:

Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 2:29 pm

I was told that Ibuprofen amplifies the symptoms of COVID-19. Is this true?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/6a71a083049bb75b9348aa724b648838?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Sonja** says:

Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 7:02 pm

Is there any truth to the rumor that NSAIDS are worsening the symptoms of
COVID 19?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/42d22de5da3c5c2ee49eb153f3173fc0?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Hilory** says:

Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 9:32 pm

I have been reading that the use of Motrin and Advil can increase the
difficulty with Covid19. I am allergic to tylenol and have only been able to
use Motrin. Is this information true? What would you recommend as a
replacement?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/fe3d880414e0f7a0d5c8ec317c47b215?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Shearise** says:

Friday, March 27, 2020 at 6:21 am

is it true to taking ibuprofen will cause the virus to get worse so I
shouldn't take it?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/c5f4e6ba3ee7e6566d47395b2566fd25?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Michon** says:

Friday, March 27, 2020 at 9:13 am

I am reading and hearing that ibuprofen makes the covid infection worse. Is
this true and should people avoid ibuprofen?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/8f1a0885ea546189ff445eb64a261a55?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Lisa** says:

Friday, March 27, 2020 at 9:44 am

Did anyone read the 'fine print' at the top of this blog? The CDC is not
answering questions. It states:

"Comments listed below are posted by individuals not associated with CDC,
unless otherwise stated. These comments do not represent the official views of
CDC, and CDC does not guarantee that any information posted by individuals on
this site is correct, and disclaims any liability for any loss or damage
resulting from reliance on any such information. Read more about our comment
policy Â»."

No one at the CDC is going to answer these questions. Just wanted to mention
that.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/e302a5a4384f0d3a647f64cd49d6d701?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Dave Amos** says:

Friday, March 27, 2020 at 10:18 am

I'm hearing the Ibuprofen increases covid-19 and makes the symptoms worse and
increases your chance to die from it. Any truth to this?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/1953103d72d4cbd785cd2fd8bc70b04e?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Kara Mancinelli** says:

Friday, March 27, 2020 at 10:26 am

CDC please stop replying to the questions around ibuprofen with links to the
commonly asked q&a.  
I have clicked every link and there is no definitive answer that I was able to
find.  
If you canât answer the question at this time just say so.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/43ca9865a790166ff0d4fd8e49a1c555?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Anthony** says:

Friday, March 27, 2020 at 10:51 am

Does Advil and ibuprofen make your symptoms worse if your infected?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/f3f77451884de3d389445c5448ecfd32?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Dave G** says:

Friday, March 27, 2020 at 12:16 pm

Do you people not read anything else except your own vapid posts? Scroll up a
few and it will answer all of your questions… And why would anyone believe
anything like this from Facebook? It's Facebook…

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/e06314365f7665855f06ffa24d4269b8?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**A curious wife** says:

Friday, March 27, 2020 at 1:04 pm

I someone is running fever what should they take such as ibuprofen and/or
Tylenol? My husband said that we are not supposed to take ibuprofen or Advil?
Asking to see if this is true.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/84356a9930d3e7afe30a2e55a380142a?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Sheila Hubbard** says:

Friday, March 27, 2020 at 2:41 pm

I've heard 2 sources now that Ibuprofen and Advil seem to cause COVID 19 to
have worse negative results and or advance to pneumonia quicker. does the CDC
have knowledge or recommendations on whether to use or not use these two
products if symptoms start. thanks

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/6a3bf6ac676517ac977c25787e050eda?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Kazoua** says:

Friday, March 27, 2020 at 3:21 pm

Wow, I came here to look for answers. And after looking at this immensely long
thread it is clear that there does not appear to be a regulator that is
responding for the CDC. Pretty disappointing…

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/34a64ac4c8a840668cf7fd3c56379927?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Brian Hager** says:

Friday, March 27, 2020 at 3:55 pm

I just heard a audio file explaining the harm of taking Advil while having
COVID-19. The claim is that it causes pneumonia to flare up. True or false?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/e5535833b7a6eabb77d976449b7bc7e7?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**roger** says:

Friday, March 27, 2020 at 4:59 pm

Should COVID-19 Patients Avoid Taking Ibuprofen?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/e5535833b7a6eabb77d976449b7bc7e7?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**roger** says:

Friday, March 27, 2020 at 5:01 pm

Can COVID-19 remain viable on food prepared by a shedder?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/b4878a3af7c7438a9517f7e2c7bea14b?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Tameka** says:

Friday, March 27, 2020 at 5:47 pm

Is it true ibuprofen shouldnât be taken if you are covid positive?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/3286475fc10e6a8b32ba256e2a6d09e9?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Mickey** says:

Friday, March 27, 2020 at 6:29 pm

So sad that when you're trying to find the answer to a simple question-which
is better for coronavirus, ibuprofen or tylenol-you can't get a straight
answer anywhere! If you want all the rumors to stop, ANSWER THE QUESTION!

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/e5535833b7a6eabb77d976449b7bc7e7?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**roger** says:

Friday, March 27, 2020 at 6:34 pm

How long can COVID-19 remain viable on US currency (paper money) ?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/e823e4306da34f1c93648da10dce8927?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Lark West** says:

Friday, March 27, 2020 at 10:02 pm

Is it true that ibuprofen is not safe to take if you have coronavirus, that it
makes the condition worse?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/36e403fa63d20d721c7f3153da6edad1?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**CRuby** says:

Friday, March 27, 2020 at 11:39 pm

I heard, also, not to take ibuprofen or NSAID OTC pain killers. Then today
from a site called "Science alert" said (Not sure if it is a reliable site)
But it does NOT answer the question, Can you take NSAIDs?

"We do not currently believe there is any proven scientific evidence linking
over-the-counter use of ibuprofen to the aggravation of COVID-19," the
statement said.

The spokesperson said Reckitt Benckiser was "engaging with the WHO, EMA (the
European Medicines Agency) and other local health authorities" on the issue
and would provide "any additional information or guidance necessary for the
safe use of our products following any such evaluation."

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/4b1f5cbee33022a6d243bfc85f550df8?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Israel** says:

Saturday, March 28, 2020 at 1:29 am

with covid-19 on the rise should dialysis, nurses and techs require all
patients to keep their mask covering nose & mouth? Because at the Davita
center where i go they don't

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/1aabb33888786ad1e87ff302752a2cbe?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Lisa** says:

Saturday, March 28, 2020 at 2:51 am

Is it true that Advil, Motrin, (Ibuprofen) will make the virus worse?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/0d2b6842904357ed6ba12f9f9af78630?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Renee Young** says:

Saturday, March 28, 2020 at 7:59 am

I too would like the advil/tylenol question cleared up. I see it all over
facebook and I would like to speak to it, but do not know if it is true or
not. I don't want to spread misinformation, but would like to share best
practices for safety during this time. I usually take ibuprofen for headaches
and fevers, but if it recommended to abstain during this time, then I would
like to be able to pass on that information.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/a4fe541b78e378560f75454b5c1784ca?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Dr Nalini Tripathi** says:

Saturday, March 28, 2020 at 12:16 pm

I want to know that realtion between NSAIDS and COVID-19, i recevied one
message ,where i have read that iboprofen aggrevate the COVID-19 ,i am dental
pracitioner ,very commonly we are using that medicine in our practice ,thats
why my concern is more to get this statement clear it out ,i request to CDC
team that please provide me valid information regarding that .

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/9abf2ca9b2d9bc6e741f2a6541397cc6?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Jim** says:

Saturday, March 28, 2020 at 2:42 pm

Should people avoid ibuprofen until the pandemic abates?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/c71dc24ca79397680936b2e3d0fdf504?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Richard** says:

Saturday, March 28, 2020 at 4:28 pm

I take aspirin on a daily basis. Would this be a negative with COVID19 out
there?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/f79af5ea7692b6707d0821cefebd0af7?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Sherwin Granger** says:

Saturday, March 28, 2020 at 4:43 pm

is taking advil/ibuprophen bad for someone with igns and symptoms of covid-19?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/358a9fe8725963de84d9e00330a9e569?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Tammy** says:

Sunday, March 29, 2020 at 9:28 am

Yeah I called the CDC about the Ibuprofen question, it's ok vs not ok to take.
They directed me here and the only mention it in the comments with the same
question, NO ANSWERS. They say to contact your health care provider or local
government but they don't know! I am on Ibuprofen 800mg 3x/day. a lot of
people NEED TO KNOW!!!!

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/26c54fb920adcda58ed764a51d3c19af?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Patti** says:

Sunday, March 29, 2020 at 1:21 pm

Is it tru that we should only use tylenol and nothing else bc it enhances the
virus spread to sever?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/677910681457dd1dd69db5a01a982793?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**I See** says:

Sunday, March 29, 2020 at 5:00 pm

https://www.fda.gov/drugs/drug-safety-and-availability/fda-advises-patients-
use-non-steroidal-anti-inflammatory-drugs-nsaids-covid-19

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/37a9de9d05074c1dca414ee5b981d991?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Gail** says:

Sunday, March 29, 2020 at 5:14 pm

Will elderberry supplement enhance the symptoms of COVID19 and make the person
sicker?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/658278dcc20f3ee447814b1cbbdac6e6?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Lisa** says:

Sunday, March 29, 2020 at 11:23 pm

Trying to find the information that many others are on here regarding the
rumors of ibuprofen. True or false. Yes or No. a simple answer would be nice
to put some people at ease. Thank you

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/67b2bf047270b767569592d9e9aacabf?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Barb** says:

Monday, March 30, 2020 at 7:13 am

I am a nurse in a hospital and live with my sister. are there special
precautions I need to take to protect her? I leave my scrubs in the garage,
wash my hands, and shower upon entering the house. She is afraid and basically
wants to limit my movement in the house. She put a refrigerator in my room so
I don't have to come out for snacks. When out on the patio she wants me to sit
away from her.. I take all precautions at work and at home. Is there any
information on how to protect family members of health care providers? I am
asymptomatic and have only been floated to the the virus unit once since this
all started. Any information you can offer is greatly appreciated.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/a2f0147793c92802b4c2d0dd4840b934?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Laureen A Sullivan** says:

Monday, March 30, 2020 at 9:06 am

Facebook and other media claims Advil makes the Corona Virus from mild to
severe. Is this true? If so why hasn't the CDC updated their website to alert
the public? Please advise…..

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/049bbb5b85be5d390d988e45fbc585cd?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Kathleen A Giacobbe** says:

Saturday, April 4, 2020 at 6:15 pm

Can I take Ibuprophen during this Coronavirus outbreak?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/3a923f723cf97823c91d67b07064fa70?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Mike Stoyanoff** says:

Monday, March 30, 2020 at 1:09 pm

what if my employer is not taking this covid serious and is doing nothing to
protect us or our customers

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/667989132564fe3b75dc74436e3826a8?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Joyce** says:

Monday, March 30, 2020 at 5:23 pm

Like many others, I want to know if Naproxen has any effect on the corona
virus. I have severe arthritis and have stopped taking my Naproxen. After a
week without it, Iâm in a lot of pain.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/089f6f0fbdfbfc561478b35c91aad402?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Alan** says:

Monday, March 30, 2020 at 11:26 pm

My doctor told me to take ibuprofen, can we take it or not?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/abea01645108dd950949261d8aded445?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Judy** says:

Tuesday, March 31, 2020 at 11:01 am

Whats the story pertaining to Corona virus and advil. I heard advil can make
it worse you should take only tylenol

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/7afd2fe2db707d7226f48adcfdfb1fdc?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Cynthia Carle** says:

Tuesday, March 31, 2020 at 2:48 pm

When the NYT and the WP and others are now recommending MASKS, why isn't the
CDC? We can understand the need to get PPE to our health care workers, but
this did not need to mean you had to mislead the public. We need to be able to
believe our chief health agency, and to continue to withhold this lifesaving
information, when even a homemade mask will help, is to further damage your
credibility.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/49f7b35fe3412d0b97454680a1237457?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Tiffany** says:

Tuesday, March 31, 2020 at 3:44 pm

There is something going around social media advising everyone not to use
ibuprofen to help strengthen your body to fight COVID. Is there any truth to
this? Do we need to stop using ibuprofen?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/91850f932bd09e224ce98117d5078a9e?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Valerie Dougherty** says:

Tuesday, March 31, 2020 at 11:20 pm

is it safe to still take out side walks that's all I do right now I even wear
a mask an no touch face n wash hands when I come back from walk also are me an
husband safe cuz he still has to work and comes home he keeps distant in work
as much as possible cleans hands n surfaces are we safe an is there any thing
else we need to do to be safe

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/fbf9cb07355a1fb5e2c0fdcdd470360f?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**NRao** says:

Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 3:34 pm

Anecdotal info is that people taking doxycycline for acne are not being
infected with covid 19 virus while rest of family are showing signs of covid
19. is this worth looking into for a senior citizen with CHF?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/9fe0707a34fd09828dd6f53e5f64d369?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**LAURA Roesler** says:

Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 5:15 pm

This advice does nothing for someone who already has the virus.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/dafe64b045938d8baadd48e4ba0e83d3?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**MiguelB** says:

Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:25 pm

I am confused about one thing. Everyone talks about using detergent to watch a
countertop then a disinfectant.  
If the virus is gotten rid of by washing our hands with soap and water, why
isn't just soap and water good enough for washing countertops etc? why is
disinfectant called for there? Makes no sense to me.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/418e47f005997c24f1dea93ccd8be1c3?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**SATISH SATHE** says:

Friday, April 3, 2020 at 11:18 pm

How long should the lockdown to be continued? If you are entering into 3rd
stage and fear of community spread is at your doorstep.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/166c15324d7edf01d823b78ce2226b2e?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Frances HB** says:

Saturday, April 4, 2020 at 2:41 am

Can you contract the virus by using the same stationary bike in the home? I
know the bike should be washed down with soap and water and disinfected but
are there other reasons why the bike should not used by two different family
member(s)? I am concerned about any residual body fluids left between the
thread seams on the seat.

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/536fae70e6fd2cdaf04b07b05345b03a?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Sharon Schneiderman** says:

Saturday, April 4, 2020 at 6:04 pm

I just picked up my prescription meds from pharmacy and Iâm thinking ok do I
have to worry about taking the pills ? There is no way to disinfect a pill but
what about the concern of the sanitary measures of the pharmacist or person
who put the pills in the bottle ?  
I may sound paranoid but is it ok to just take my meds?

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/e70eeddfb6babe400241706e403c160e?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**michael flood** says:

Saturday, April 4, 2020 at 9:05 pm

I would like to know if I can go outside for a walk ? Or if I can open the
windows in my house for fresh air ? Something no one will answer. Why ?????

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/6fda0544953a81d6cca954a39c0d2655?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Dr. Jan Wade Gilbert** says:

Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 10:40 pm

Since the ultimate success over COVID-19 is our immune system, why have we not
heard methods of strengthening those systems? They can pinpoint and destroy
COVID19 without any negative effects to the rest of the body.  
Also, since Vitamin C is a known, potent antiviral, why are we not using that
against COVID-19? It's safe, readily available and no negatives - and cheap!

Reply

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/6fda0544953a81d6cca954a39c0d2655?s=32&d=blank&r=g)
**Dr. Jan Wade Gilbert** says:

Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 10:49 pm

Want to fight a war? Expect casualties.  
Want to hide and cower? Expect annihilation.  
Want to win? Make strong, offensive moves.  
We have so far been wonderful at retreating and being defensive. We should
have been immediately attacking by strengthening our immune systems and taking
the antiviral Vitamin C. Instead, we wait for drugs when tour two most
powerful weapons that give our bodies ammunition to fight the pathogen lay
awaiting and unused.

Reply

### Post a Comment

###  Cancel Reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment

All comments posted become a part of the public domain, and users are
responsible for their comments. This is a moderated site and your comments
will be reviewed before they are posted. Read more about our comment policy »

Name *

Email *

Current ye@r *

Leave this field empty

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * ePub file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RIS file

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Page last reviewed:Wednesday, March 25, 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Page last updated:Wednesday, March 25, 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Content source: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Division of Cancer Prevention and Control

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * YouTube

![Department of Health and Human
Services](/TemplatePackage/3.0/images/hhs.png)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * ###### About CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Employment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Newsroom
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Training/Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC's Organization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Mission and Vision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Using this Site
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * ###### Legal

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Link to Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Accessibility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * No FEAR Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Inspector General
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * USA.gov
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   * ###### Contact CDC

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

1600 Clifton Road Atlanta, GA 30329-4027 USA

800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636)

Contact CDC-INFO

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

