Link: https://medlineplus.gov/genitalwarts.html    
                                Description: Genital warts are a sexually transmitted disease caused by the human papillomavirus (HPV). Learn about what they look like, prevention, and treatment.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Genital Warts

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/genitalwarts.html

#  Genital Warts

Also called: Condylomata acuminate, Venereal warts

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Prevention and Risk Factors

### Learn More

  * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

  * Images

### Research

  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Teenagers
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Genital warts are a sexually transmitted disease (STD) caused by the human
papillomavirus (HPV). The warts usually appear as a small bump or group of
bumps in the genital area. They are flesh-colored and can be flat or look
bumpy like cauliflower. Some genital warts are so small you cannot see them.
In women, the warts usually occur in or around the vagina, on the cervix, or
around the anus. In men, genital warts are less common. They may have warts on
the tip of the penis, around the anus, or on the scrotum, thigh, or groin.

You can get genital warts during oral, vaginal, or anal sex with an infected
partner. Correct usage of latex condoms greatly reduces, but does not
completely eliminate, the risk of catching or spreading HPV. The most reliable
way to avoid infection is to not have anal, vaginal, or oral sex. HPV vaccines
may help prevent some of the HPV infections that cause genital warts.

Your health care provider usually diagnoses genital warts by seeing them. The
warts might disappear on their own. If not, your health care provider can
treat or remove them. HPV stays in your body even after treatment, so warts
can come back.

Dept. of Health and Human Services Office on Women's Health

## Start Here

  * Genital Warts (American Academy of Dermatology)
  * Genital Warts (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Genital Warts (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

  * HPV Vaccine (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
  * HPV Vaccines: Vaccinating Your Preteen or Teen (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Specifics

  * Anal Warts (American Society of Colon and Rectal Surgeons) Also in Spanish

## Images

  * Genital Wart (Condyloma Acuminatum) (Logical Images)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Condylomata Acuminata ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Correlation of interleukin-18 gene polymorphism with the susceptibility of condyloma acuminatum...
  * Article: Diode lasers for the treatment of genital warts.
  * Article: Successful nonsurgical treatment of penile Buschke-LÃ¶wenstein tumor with 12 weeks of...
  * Genital Warts -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

  * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
  * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Teenagers

  * Genital Warts (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
  * Genital Warts (HPV) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

  * Condom Fact Sheet in Brief (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
  * Genital warts (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Genital Warts](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GenitalWarts.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Genital warts

## Related Health Topics

  * HPV
  * Sexually Transmitted Diseases

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Genital Warts is the National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 30 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 31 August 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

