

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Cancer Survivors

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Staying Well While Staying at Home

A Guide for Cancer Patients and Their Caregivers and Family Members

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

COVID-19: What Older Adults Need to Know

COVID-19: What Older Adults Need to Know

If you are one of the people at increased risk for serious COVID-19 illness
because of a cancer diagnosis, it's especially important for you to take
action to reduce the risk of getting COVID-19 now. This video offers tips to
help you prepare to stay home for a few weeks if you have to.

**These tips can help cancer patients, as well as their family members and
caregivers, stay healthy while staying home.**

## Cancer Patients and Survivors

If you have cancer now or had cancer in the past, you may need to take special
steps to protect your health if you have to stay home. This is especially
important for cancer patients who are treated with chemotherapy. They are more
likely to get an infection because chemotherapy can weaken the immune system,
and for the same reason the infection may be more severe.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Watch out for fever.** Take your temperature any time you feel warm, flushed, chilled, or not well. Call your doctor right away if you have a temperature of 100.4ºF (38ºC) or higher.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Clean your hands.** Many diseases are spread by not cleaning your hands, which is especially dangerous when you're getting chemotherapy treatment. Wash your hands often.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Know the signs and symptoms of infection.** Infection during chemotherapy can lead to hospitalization or death. Call your doctor right away if you notice any of the signs and symptoms of an infection.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Avoid other people as much as possible (social distancing).** Avoid leaving home as much as possible. Maintain a distance of at least 6 feet (2m) between you and non-household members. If you must leave home, avoid places where people congregate. Have supplies and food delivered to your home.

## Caregivers, Family Members, and Others

It's also very important for people who live with or take care of people with
cancer to take steps to keep themselves healthy. As a caregiver, it is
important for you to take care of yourself. All of your actions will impact
your loved one's health and well-being. Following the proper protocol is
essential to help lower the chance of spreading an infection to the person
with cancer.

Caregivers and household members must remember that if they become infected
with COVID-19, they risk infecting the cancer patient. Therefore, in order to
minimize their risk of becoming infected, they should observe the precautions
recommended for the cancer patient as much as possible.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Watch out for symptoms of infection:** fever of 100.4ºF (38ºC) or higher, cough, or shortness of breath.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Clean your hands often.**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Avoid other people as much as possible (social distancing).** Avoid leaving home as much as possible. Maintain a distance of at least 6 feet (2m) between you and non-household members. If you must leave home, avoid places where people congregate. Have supplies and food delivered to your home.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **If a caregiver becomes ill:** Immediately separate yourself from the cancer patient. If possible, stay away from the cancer patient's home. If you must remain in the same household, isolate yourself in a separate room, if possible with a separate bathroom. Make arrangements for someone else to care for the cancer patient.

## Cancer Patients: Preparing for Your Medical Needs

If you're a cancer patient, you may need medicine or special medical
equipment. You may also have doctor's appointments scheduled.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ask your doctor about getting extra necessary medications to have on hand in case you need to stay home for a long time.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Be sure you have over-the-counter medicines to treat fever and other symptoms in case you get sick.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Call your doctor's office several days before an appointment to make sure the doctor can still see you at that time.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * If you have cancer that is responding well to treatment, talk to your doctor about your chemotherapy schedule, and only consider delaying treatments after consultation with your doctor.

## Cancer Patients, Caregivers, and Household Members

### Preventing the Spread of Infections

The best way to prevent an infectious illness is to avoid being exposed to
germs. Some simple steps you can take to protect yourself and others while
you're at home include--

![Image of a person washing his hands](/coronavirus/2019-ncov/images/protect-
wash-hands.png)

Clean your hands often

Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. If soap and
water aren't available, use a hand sanitizer that contains at least 60%
alcohol.

![Image of a person alone in her house](/coronavirus/2019-ncov/images/protect-
quarantine.png)

Avoid close contact with others

Stay at least 6 feet (2m) away from other people. Don't visit crowded places;
have food and supplies delivered to you. If you're getting chemotherapy, stay
away from all others as much as you can.

![Image of a person covering her face with a
tissue](/coronavirus/2019-ncov/images/COVIDweb_06_coverCough.png)

Cover coughs and sneezes

Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue when you cough or sneeze, or use the
inside of your elbow. Throw away used tissues and wash your hands.

![Image of a person spraying
disinfectant](/coronavirus/2019-ncov/images/COVIDweb_09_clean.png)

Clean and disinfect daily

Every day, clean and disinfect surfaces that are touched often, like tables,
doorknobs, light switches, countertops, handles, phones, toilets, and faucets.

## If You Get Sick

If you get a fever or other symptoms of an infection, take these important
steps right away--

![Image of a person calling a
doctor](/coronavirus/2019-ncov/images/COVIDweb_04_CallDoc.png)

![Image of a person alone in one
room](/coronavirus/2019-ncov/images/COVIDweb_03_separate.png)

![Image of two people holding a glass of water, with a red slash through
it](/coronavirus/2019-ncov/images/COVIDweb_08_DontShare.png)

Call before going to the doctor

Before going to a doctor or hospital, call and tell them your symptoms,
especially if you have a fever. Be sure to tell them if you're getting
chemotherapy.

Separate yourself from others

Try to stay in one room and away from other people in your home. Use a
separate bathroom if one is available.

Avoid sharing personal items

Don't share dishes, drinking glasses, cups, utensils, towels, or bedding with
others. After using these items, wash them thoroughly.

## More Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Coronavirus (COVID-19)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How to Prepare for COVID-19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Are You at Higher Risk for Severe Illness?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Preventing Infections in Cancer Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Blog post: Best Remedy for COVID-19 Is Prevention

Page last reviewed: March 26, 2020

Content source: Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention

home Cancer Survivors

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Guide to Staying Well While Staying at Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cancer Patients: Diagnosis and Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Cancer Treatments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Side Effects of Cancer Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Lymphedema
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Blood Clots (Deep Vein Thrombosis)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Clinical Trials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Complementary and Alternative Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Staying Healthy During Cancer Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Paying for Cancer Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Be Prepared for an Emergency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cancer Survivors: Life After Cancerplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Staying Healthy After Cancer Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Survivorship Care Plans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * âTalk to Someoneâ Simulation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Advice for Caregivers of Cancer Survivorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Caring for Yourself
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Helping Cancer Patients and Survivors Stay Physically Healthy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Helping Cancer Patients and Survivors Stay Mentally and Emotionally Healthy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Information for Health Care Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Caring for Cancer Survivors: Obesity and Wellness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Caring for Cancer Survivors Who Use Tobacco
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Provider Education Training to Improve Mental Health Care of Cancer Survivors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cancer Survivor Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDCâs Stories of Cancer Survivors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What CDC Is Doing to Help Cancer Survivors

## Stay Informed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * govd

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

