

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Using CDC.gov

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Use of Agency Materials

Minus

Related Pages

Most of the information on the CDC and ATSDR websites is not subject to
copyright, is in the public domain, and may be freely used or reproduced
without obtaining copyright permission.

There are, however, a few exceptions. A federal government website may have a
mix of public domain and copyright-protected materials. First, some resources,
as well as images, on the CDC and ATSDR websites are restricted in their use
because they were developed by government contractors or grantees, or have
been licensed by a third party.  Second, the U.S. government work designation
does not apply to works of state and local governments; works of state and
local governments may be protected by copyright.  Third, copyright laws also
differ internationally. While U.S. federal copyright laws may not protect U.S.
government works outside the United States, the work may still be protected
under the copyright laws of other countries when used in these jurisdictions.
Copyright-protected materials featured on the CDC and ATSDR websites should
include a copyright statement. However, if in doubt, please write to the
contact point for that site.

**The** **following requirements must be followed to utilize** **CDC 's**
**public domain content:**

1) Attribution to the agency that developed the material must be provided in
your use of the materials.  Such attribution should clearly state the
materials were developed by CDC ATSDR and/or HHS (e.g., "Source: CDC";
"Materials developed by CDC");

2) You must utilize a disclaimer which clearly indicates that your use of the
material, including any links to the materials on the CDC, ATSDR or HHS
websites, does not imply endorsement by CDC, ATSDR, HHS or the United States
Government of you, your company, product, facility, service or enterprise. All
such disclaimers must be prominently and unambiguously displayed (e.g.,
"Reference to specific commercial products, manufacturers, companies, or
trademarks does not constitute its endorsement or recommendation by the U.S.
Government, Department of Health and Human Services, or Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention;

3) You may not change the substantive content of the materials; and

4) You must state that the material is otherwise available on the agency
website for no charge.

Note: Many of CDC's on-line publications are continually updated as the agency
learns more about a specific disease or condition. Occasionally, sites that
copy and re-post CDC materials fail to check for updates, which may result in
out-of-date information being offered to users. For that reason, we urge you
to link directly to our resource documents rather than re-posting. If you do
re-post, please check back periodically to see if there are revisions.

Linking to CDC, ATSDR or HHS content should open up a new browser window to
our site/page.  CDC content should not appear within the original window,
framed by the existing site.

**CDC LOGO**

The CDC and/or ATSDR logo and other related CDC, ATSDR or Department of Health
and Human Services (HHS) logos and marks are U.S. government property and
**_may not be used without express written permission from CDC, ATSDR and/or
HHS._**

These logos and marks are designed to signify official agency products,
activities, representatives, and facilities. They should never be used to
promote or suggest endorsement of non-CDC, ATSDR or HHS companies, activities,
products, events, facilities or services. They should never be used by outside
parties to misrepresent the purpose, character, statements or policies of the
agencies.

Please note:  Any misrepresentation or misappropriation of the agency's
materials, positions or logo/marks in publications sold for profit will be
referred to the HHS Office of the Inspector General (and possibly law
enforcement and other entities) for investigation and possible enforcement and
may be subject to civil money penalties under 42 U.S.C. Section 1320b-10.

Page last reviewed: December 12, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Using CDC.gov

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC.govplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Search Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * File Formats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Email Updatesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Manage Subscriptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies and Regulationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Guidelines for Public Comments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Linking to CDC.gov
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Use of Agency Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * PHIL Image Reuse Terms and Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Plain Writing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Privacy Policyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Current Third Party Tools/Pages
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Our Cookie Policy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mobile Privacy Policy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Web Site Disclaimers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Nondiscrimination notice
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Language Assistance

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

