Link: https://medlineplus.gov/pubiclice.html    
                                Description: Pubic lice, or crabs, are tiny parasitic insects. They usually live in the pubic area, and most often spread through sexual contact. Find out how to tell if you have them, and how to treat them.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Pubic Lice

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/pubiclice.html

#  Pubic Lice

Also called: Crabs

## Summary

### What are pubic lice?

Pubic lice (also called crabs) are tiny insects which usually live in the
pubic or genital area of humans. They are also sometimes found on other coarse
body hair, such as hair on the legs, armpits, mustache, beard, eyebrows, or
eyelashes. Pubic lice on the eyebrows or eyelashes of children or teens may be
a sign of sexual exposure or abuse.

Pubic lice are parasites, and they need to feed on human blood to survive.
They are one of the three types of lice that live on humans. The other two
types are head lice and body lice. Each type of lice is different, and getting
one type does not mean that you will get another type.

### How do pubic lice spread?

Pubic lice move by crawling, because they cannot hop or fly. They usually
spread through sexual contact. Occasionally, they may spread through physical
contact with a person who has pubic lice, or through contact with clothing,
beds, bed linens, or towels that were used by a person with pubic lice. You
cannot get pubic lice from animals.

### Who is at risk for pubic lice?

Since they spread mainly through sexual contact, pubic lice are most common in
adults.

### What are the symptoms of pubic lice?

The most common symptom of pubic lice is intense itching in the genital area.
You may also see nits (lice eggs) or crawling lice.

### How do you know if you have pubic lice?

A diagnosis of a pubic lice usually comes from seeing a louse or nit. But lice
and nits can be difficult to find because there may be only a few present.
Also, they often attach themselves to more than one hair, and they do not
crawl as quickly as head and body lice. Sometimes it takes a magnifying lens
to see the lice or nits.

People who have pubic lice should also be checked for other sexually
transmitted diseases, and their sexual partners should also be checked for
pubic lice.

### What are the treatments for pubic lice?

The main treatment for pubic lice is a lice-killing lotion. Options include a
lotion that contains permethrin or a mousse containing pyrethrins and
piperonyl butoxide. These products are available over-the-counter without a
prescription. They are safe and effective when you use them according to the
instructions. Usually one treatment will get rid of the lice. If not, you may
need another treatment after 9-10 days.

There are other lice-killing medicines that are available with a prescription
from your health care provider.

You should also wash your clothes, bedding, and towels with hot water, and dry
them using the hot cycle of the dryer.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Learn More

  * Pubic "Crab" Lice Diagnosis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Pubic "Crab" Lice Prevention and Control (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Pubic "Crab" Lice Treatment (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Pubic Lice (Crabs) (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Pubic Lice (Crabs) (For Teens) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
  * Pubic Lice (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Images

  * Pubic Lice (Pediculosis Pubis) (Logical Images)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Human lice: Spectators and actors of the history of humanity through...
  * Article: Phthiriasis Palpebrarum Treated with Oral Ivermectin.
  * Article: A Case of Unilateral Phthiriasis Palpebrarum Infestation.
  * Pubic Lice -- see more articles

## Patient Handouts

  * Pubic lice (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Lice](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Lice2.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Pubic lice

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Pubic Lice is the National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 30 November 2018 Topic last reviewed: 18 April 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

