

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Using CDC.gov

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Web Site Disclaimers

Minus

Related Pages

## AddThisSocial_round_syndicate

This site uses the AddThis service to allow visitors to bookmark and share
website content on a variety of social media sites. Visitors who use the
AddThis service to share content do not need to register or provide any
personal information. The AddThis service providers collect non-personal data,
including the aggregate and summary statistics on browsers and usage patterns.
AddThis also uses non-personal data to manage the service efficiently and
diagnose server problems. Although AddThis offers some analytics and usage
data to CDC, these reports do not include any personally identifiable
information. The reports are password protected and only available to members
of CDC and other designated staff requiring this information to perform their
duties.  The AddThis Privacy policy is available at:
http://www.addthis.com/privacyexternal icon

## Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Links with this icon (external icon) indicate that you are leaving a CDC Web site.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The link may lead to a non-federal site, but it provides additional information that is consistent with the intended purpose of a federal site.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal site.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal site does not constitute an endorsement by HHS or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the site.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination site's privacy policy when you follow the link. For more information on exit notifications and disclaimers for non-federal Web sites, the following resources may be helpful: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HHS Web standardsexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Webcontent.govexternal icon

## Endorsement Disclaimer -- Pop-Up Advertisements

When visiting our Web site, your Web browser may produce pop-up
advertisements. These advertisements were most likely produced by other Web
sites you visited or by third party software installed on your computer. The
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention does not endorse or recommend
products of services for which you may view a pop-up advertisement on your
computer screen while visiting our site.

## Image Disclaimer

Many of the images used on this website are licensed stock photography images
that feature model(s). The models have no affiliation with The Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention and the images are for illustrative purposes
only.

## Information Disclaimer

The information provided using this Web site is only intended to be general
summary information to the public. It is not intended to take the place of
either the written law or regulations.

## Intrusion Detection

This site is maintained by the U.S. Government. It is protected by various
provisions of Title 18, U.S. Code. Violations of Title 18 are subject to
criminal prosecution in federal court.

For site security purposes and to ensure that this service remains available
to all users, we employ software programs to monitor traffic to identify
unauthorized attempts to upload or change information, or otherwise cause
damage. In the event of authorized law enforcement investigations, and
pursuant to any required legal process, information from these sources may be
used to help identify an individual.

## CDC iTunes Disclaimer

**Limitation of Liability.** The materials embodied in this software are "as-
is" and without warranty of any kind, express, implied or otherwise, including
without limitation, any warranty of fitness for a particular purpose. In no
event shall the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) or the United
States (U.S.) Government be liable to you or anyone else for any direct,
special, incidental, indirect or consequential damages of any kind, or any
damages whatsoever, including without limitation, loss of profit, loss of use,
savings or revenue, or the claims of third parties, whether or not CDC or the
U.S. Government has been advised of the possibility of such loss, however
caused and on any theory of liability, arising out of or in connection with
the possession, use or performance of this software.

CDC is not responsible for confidentiality or any information shared by the
owner or user of the device with other parties. CDC is not responsible for
information shared with third parties through loss or theft of the device.

This application is not intended to provide medical advice. Any questions
regarding a user's personal medical condition should be directed to the
application user's primary care physician.

Use of trade names, commercial sources or private organizations is for
identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services and/or CDC.

## Section 508 Accessibility

The CDC cannot verify the compliance of documents produced by outside agencies
and companies. If you have problems accessing them, please contact the vendor
directly or file an accessibility report and mention the name of the file, so
we can assist you.

## reCAPTCHA

### What is CAPTCHA

CAPTCHA stands for "Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers
and Humans Apart" used to prevent automated software from completing a form or
accessing a system.

### CAPTCHA Accessibility

Many sites use the traditional CAPTCHA with distorted text or numbers that
must be inputted by a website user. This method presents accessibility
challenges making it difficult for persons using screen readers. As a result,
CDC has chosen to use the Google reCaptcha to allow the user options to look
at a new CAPTCHA challenge and or listen to the current challenge. The
interface also allow the user to find out about the CAPTCHA.

Traditional CAPTCHA

![Sample of CAPTCHA interface](/other/images/captcha_300px.jpg)

Google's reCAPTCHA

![Sample of reCAPTCHA interface](/other/images/recaptcha_300px.jpg)

Page last reviewed: December 12, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Using CDC.gov

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC.govplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Search Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * File Formats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Email Updatesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Manage Subscriptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies and Regulationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Guidelines for Public Comments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Linking to CDC.gov
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Use of Agency Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * PHIL Image Reuse Terms and Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Plain Writing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Privacy Policyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Current Third Party Tools/Pages
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Our Cookie Policy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mobile Privacy Policy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Web Site Disclaimers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Nondiscrimination notice
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Language Assistance

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

