

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Using CDC.gov

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# CDC Cookie Policy

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC.gov Cookies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Third-Party Cookies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How to Manage Cookies

When you visit a page on CDC.gov, the internet browser on your computer may
store a small piece of data sent from CDC.gov web servers (commonly called a
"cookie"). The "cookie" allows the server to "remember" specific information
about your visit while you are using the site and is sent by the browser to
CDC.gov servers in all web requests to CDC. The "cookie" also makes it easier
for you to use the dynamic features of web pages since they can be used to
save certain settings and preferences. Cookies from CDC web pages only collect
information about your browser's visit to our site; they do not collect
personal information about you and they are not sent to any other web sites.
To learn how to manage or refuse cookies from CDC.gov or any other site see
USA.govexternal icon.

##  CDC.gov Cookies

CDC.gov uses the following cookies (defined and organized per the Office of
Management and Budget's "Guidance for Online Use of Web Measurement and
Customization Technologies" (OMB M-10-22 pdf icon[102 KB, 9 pages]external
icon) :

**Single-session cookies** are used for technical purposes, such as enabling
better navigation through the site, facilitating the use of user accounts, and
generating aggregated statistics about how the website is used. Single-session
cookies may use a unique identifier, but do not publicly expose personal
information.  
_Under the framework of OMB M-10-22, this qualifies as a Tier 1 use._ pdf
icon[102 KB, 9 pages]external icon

**Multi-session or persistent cookies** are used to recognize a browser
session that was used in a previous visit to a CDC.gov web site, which can
improve a user's experience, for example, by continuing preference settings
from previous visits.  These persistent cookies also provide the ability for
CDC to gather information on unique visitors to CDC.gov web sites.  
_Under the framework of OMB M-10-22, this qualifies as a Tier 2 use._ pdf
icon[102 KB, 9 pages]external icon

The CDC uses a third-party analytics provider (for current provider please see
current third-party tools/pages list) to analyze the collected data. The
third-party analytics provider does not receive personally identifiable
information through these cookies.

Top of Page

##  Third-Party Cookies

Some pages on CDC.gov may include web content or functionality from third
parties. These third parties may use web measurement and customization
technologies (such as cookies) in conjunction with the provision of this
content or functionality. You should consult the privacy policies of these
third parties for further information. We do not knowingly use third-party
tools that place a multi-session cookie prior to the user interacting with the
tool unless identified on 3rd party tools site, for example by playing an
embedded video. If you become aware of a third-party tool on CDC.gov that
places a multi-session cookie prior to any user interaction, please contact
Privacy Office (see Contact information here).

Another form of website measurement and customization technology is the use of
"flash cookies" which are created by Adobe Flash, a technology that powers web
content such as videos. To manage these, visit the Website Storage Settings
Panel on Adobe.comexternal icon. CDC.gov does not currently use first-party
flash cookies, but they may be used by embedded third-party technologies.

### Cookies for Email Subscribers

In order to improve email subscribers' experience and the overall quality of
email subscription services, 3rd party email subscription service provider may
use cookies to measure the effectiveness of our email communications and to
better tailor email content. Please refer to the third-party tools list and
their privacy policy for more information.

Because this links cookie data with an individual user, _this would qualify as
a Tier 3 use under the framework of OMB M-10-22_ pdf icon[102 KB, 9
pages]external icon. We would therefore only connect cookie data to individual
users who have consented and opted in to receiving emails.

For data captured in this manner, we would restrict access to individual-level
information to employees, contractors, and vendors subject to non-disclosure
requirements who require access to this information in order to perform their
official duties and exercise controls to limit what data they can view based
on the specific needs of their position.

Top of Page

##  How to Manage Cookies

Visitors can control aspects of website measurement and customization
technologies used on CDC.gov and still have access to comparable information
and services on CDC.gov.

You can choose not to accept cookies from any website, including CDC.gov, by
changing the settings of your browser. You can also delete cookies stored in
your browser at any time.

Please use this opt-out instructionsexternal icon to get more information
about cookies, including how to delete them from your computer and configure
your browser to refuse them from CDC.gov or any other site.

Top of Page

Page last reviewed: December 12, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Using CDC.gov

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC.govplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Search Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * File Formats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Email Updatesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Manage Subscriptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies and Regulationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Guidelines for Public Comments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Linking to CDC.gov
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Use of Agency Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * PHIL Image Reuse Terms and Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Plain Writing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Privacy Policyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Current Third Party Tools/Pages
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Our Cookie Policy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mobile Privacy Policy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Web Site Disclaimers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Nondiscrimination notice
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Language Assistance

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

