

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Self-Checker

Coronavirus Self-Checker ×

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search __ Search Icon Close Icon

Ã Coronavirus

Coronavirus All CDC

Submit __

For a full list of topics: All A-Z Topics

Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# What Transit Maintenance Workers Need to Know About COVID-19

Minus

Related Pages

Printer friendly version

**Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)** is a respiratory illness caused by a
virus called SARS-CoV-2. Symptoms often include a fever, cough or shortness of
breath. Our understanding of how the virus is spreading is evolving as we
learn more about it, so check the CDC website for the latest information. The
virus is thought to spread mainly from person-to-person:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Between people who are in close contact with one another (within about 6 feet).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Through respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks.

Recent studies indicate that the virus can be spread by people before they
develop symptoms (pre-symptomatic) or who never develop symptoms
(asymptomatic). It also may be possible that a person can get COVID-19 by
touching a surface or object that has the virus on it and then touching their
own mouth, nose, or possibly their eyes. However, this is not thought to be
the main way the virus spreads. Older adults and people of any age who have
serious underlying medical conditions may be at higher risk for more serious
complications from COVID-19.

As a transit maintenance worker, how can I protect myself?

For transit maintenance workers, potential sources of exposure include close
contact with a coworker with COVID-19 or contacting surfaces touched or
handled by a person with COVID-19.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Limit close contact with others by maintaining a distance of at least 6 feet, when possible.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Avoid touching surfaces often touched by transit passengers.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Practice routine cleaning and disinfection of frequently touched surfaces following the directions on the cleaning product's label.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Proper hand hygiene is an important infection control measure. Regularly wash your hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds or use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer containing at least 60% alcohol.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Key times to clean hands include: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Before, during, and after preparing food
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Before eating food
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * After using the toilet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * After blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Additional workplace-specific times to clean hands include: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Before and after work shifts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Before and after work breaks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * After touching frequently touched surfaces, such as fareboxes and handrails
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Avoid contact with body fluids.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Avoid touching your eyes, nose, or mouth with unwashed hands.

Which transit vehicle surfaces should be cleaned? What are the best cleaning
chemicals to use when cleaning?

Perform routine cleaning and disinfection of all frequently touched non-porous
surfaces within the interior of the transit vehicle on a daily basis and, in
particular, before maintenance workers conduct repairs such as removing or
repairing seats. These surfaces can include hard seats, arm rests, door
handles, seat belt buckles, light and air controls, adjacent walls and
windows, and grab handles. If the surfaces are visibly dirty, they should be
cleaned prior to disinfectant application. For soft or porous surfaces, remove
any visible contamination if present and clean with appropriate cleansers
indicated for use on these surfaces.

#### Appropriate disinfectants include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * EPA's Registered Antimicrobial Products for Use Against Novel Coronavirus SARS-CoV-2, the cause of COVID-19, are expected to be effective against COVID-19 based on data for harder to kill viruses. Follow the manufacturer's instructions for all cleaning and disinfection products (e.g., concentration, application method, and contact time). A list of products with EPA-approved emerging viral pathogens claims is available at:  
https://www.epa.gov/pesticide-registration/list-n-disinfectants-use-against-
sars-cov-2external icon.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Diluted household bleach solutions prepared according to the manufacturers label for disinfection can be used if appropriate for the surface. Follow manufacturer's instructions for application and proper ventilation. Check to ensure the product is not past its expiration date. Never mix household bleach with ammonia or any other cleanser. Unexpired household bleach will be effective against coronaviruses when properly diluted.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Alcohol solutions with at least 70% alcohol.

Wear the personal protective equipment (PPE) required for using the cleaning
and disinfection products according to the product manufacturer's
instructions. After removing PPE, wash your hands with soap and water for at
least 20 seconds. Work uniforms worn during cleaning and disinfecting should
be laundered afterwards. If possible, launder items using the warmest
appropriate water setting for the items and dry items completely. Clean your
hands after handling laundry by washing your hands with soap and water or
using an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol if soap and
water are not available.

What steps should my employer take?

Employers of transit maintenance workers should develop a COVID-19 health and
safety plan to protect employees according to  CDC business guidance. This
plan should be shared with you and your coworkers. Employers should:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Take steps to help prevent the spread of COVID-19 if an employee is sick. Actively encourage sick employees to stay home. Sick employees should not return to work until the criteria to discontinue home isolation are met, in consultation with healthcare providers and state and local health departments.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Provide information on who to contact if employees become sick.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Implement flexible sick leave and supportive policies and practices. Consider drafting non-punitive emergency sick leave policies if sick leave is not offered to some or all employees.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Designate a person who is responsible for responding to COVID-19 concerns. Employees should know who this person is and how to contact them.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Provide employees with correct information about COVID-19, how it spreads, and risk of exposure.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Conduct worksite assessments to identify COVID-19 prevention strategies.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Provide employees training on good hand washing practices and other routine infection control precautions. This will help reduce the spread of many diseases, including COVID-19.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Develop policies for worker protection and training according to OSHA standards (e.g., hazard communicationexternal icon, personal protective equipmentexternal icon, etc.) for employees prior to conducting disinfection work tasks, particularly if new chemicals are introduced in the workplace to use.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Provide employees access to soap, clean running water, and drying materials or alcohol-based hand sanitizers containing at least 60% alcohol at their worksite.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Provide employees with appropriate PPE as needed for cleaning and disinfecting and provide training on properly using them.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Provide disposable disinfectant wipes so that frequently touched surfaces can be wiped down by employees. Provide products to disinfect that meet EPA's criteria for use against SARS-CoV-2external icon, diluted household bleach solutions, or alcohol solutions with at least 70% alcohol, and are appropriate for the surface. Provide employees training on manufacturer's directions for use.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Provide tissues and no-touch disposal receptacles for use by employees.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Place posters that encourage staying home when sick, cough and sneeze etiquette, and proper hand hygiene practices at the entrance to the workplace and in other workplace areas where they are likely to be seen.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Reach out to local public health officials to establish ongoing communications to facilitate access to relevant information before and during a local outbreak.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Follow all applicable federal regulations and public health agency guidelines.

Where can I get more information?

Stay informed. Talk to your employer, supervisor, union representative, or
agency personnel who are responsible for responding to COVID-19 concerns. See
these sources for more information on worker exposures to COVID-19:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC Interim Guidance for Businesses and Employers to Plan and Respond to Coronavirus Disease 2019 www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * NIOSH Workplace Safety and Health Topic website: www.cdc.gov/niosh/emres/2019_ncov.html
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC COVID-19 website: www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OSHA COVID-19 website: www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/controlprevention.htmlexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDCINFO: 1-800-CDC-INFO (1-800-232-4636) | TTY: 1-888-232-6348 | website: www.cdc.gov/info

Page last reviewed: April 4, 2020

Content source: National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases
(NCIRD), Division of Viral Diseases

homeCoronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Symptoms & Testingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Should You Get Tested
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Prevent Getting Sickplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * How It Spreads
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Protect Yourself
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Cloth Face Coversplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Recommendations for Cloth Face Covers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cloth Face Covers FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Cleaning Your Homeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Detailed Disinfection Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Social Distancing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Daily Life & Copingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Household Checklistplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Detailed Planning Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Stress & Copingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reducing Stigma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Stop the Spread of Rumors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Caring for Childrenplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Talking to Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * If You Have Animals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * If You Are Sickplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What to Do If You Are Sickplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Caring for Yourself at Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Caring for Someone
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * People Who Need Extra Precautionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * People Who Are At Higher Riskplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Older Adults
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * People with Asthma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * People with HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * At Risk for Severe Illness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Others At Riskplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Homelessness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pregnancy & Breastfeeding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What You Can Do
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travelers Returning from International Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Returning Cruise Ship Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel in the US
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Health Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travelers Prohibited from Entry to the US
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FAQ for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Communication Resources for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cases & Latest Updatesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Cases in the US
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Testing in the US
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * World Map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Situation Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC in Action
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Schools, Workplaces & Community Locationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Disinfecting Your Facility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Schools & Child Careplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance for Schools & Child Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQs for Administrators
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Checklist for Teachers and Parents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Open Child Care Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Colleges & Universitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Interim Guidance for Administrators of US Institutions of Higher Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance for Student Foreign Travel for Institutions of Higher Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQs for Administrators
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Businessesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Interim Guidance for Businesses and Employers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Airline Customer Service and Gate Agents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Airport Baggage and Cargo Handlers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Airport Custodial Staff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Airport Passenger Assistance Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Airline Catering Trucks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Aircraft Maintenance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Bus Transit Operators
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Rail Transit Operators
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Transit Maintenance Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Transit Station Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gatherings & Community Eventsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Interim Guidance for Event Planners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Election Polling Locations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQs for Event
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * First Responders and Law Enforcementplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Information for Law Enforcement Personnel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Community- and Faith-Based Organizationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Interim Guidance for Community and Faith Leaders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Checklist to Get Your Organization Ready
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Environmental Cleaning and Disinfection Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Homeless Populationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Screening for Symptoms at Entry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Interim guidance for homeless service providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Retirement Communitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance for Retirement Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Checklist to Stay Healthy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQs for Administrators
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Correctional and Detention Facilitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance for Correctional & Detention Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQs for Administrators, Staff, Incarcerated People & Family Members
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Public Health Communicators
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Healthcare Professionalsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Evaluation & Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Clinical Careplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Therapeutic Options
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Underlying Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Children & COVID-19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Caring for Pregnant Women
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Caring for Patients at Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Discharging Hospitalized Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ending Home Isolationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ending Home Isolation for Immunocompromised Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Telephone Response Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infection Controlplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Infection Control Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQ on Infection Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Using PPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Hand Hygiene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQ on Hand Hygiene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nursing Homes & Long-Term Care Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Dialysis Facilitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Patient Screening at Dialysis Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Blood & Plasma Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Alternate Care Sites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Dental Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pharmacies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Postmortem Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Optimize PPE Supplyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * PPE Burn Rate Calculator
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Eye Protection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gowns
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facemasks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * N95 Respiratorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * N95 Respirator Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Stockpiled N95 Respirators
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Decontamination & Reuse of Filtering Facepiece Respirators
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ventilators
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQ About PPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Potential Exposure at Workplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Return-to-Work Criteria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * First Responder Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Preparedness Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Healthcare Provider Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Steps Healthcare Facilities Can Take
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Healthcare Facility Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Hospital Preparedness Tool
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nursing Home & Long-Term Care Facility Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Get Your Clinic Ready
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Print Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mitigating Staff Shortages
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Operational Considerations for Non-US Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Infection Control in Non-US Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Triaging Sick Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Identifying Sick Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Training for Healthcare Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Departmentsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Evaluating PUIs Residential
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Reporting a PUI or Confirmed Case
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel-Associated Exposures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Community-Related Exposures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Pandemic Preparedness Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Households with Pets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * COVID-19 Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Guidance for Building Water Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Water Transmission and COVID-19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Laboratoriesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FAQs for Laboratories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Lab Workplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC Grows SARS-CoV-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Guidelines for Clinical Specimens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Lab Biosafety Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Laboratory Biosafety and COVID-19: Questions and Answers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Requests for Diagnostic Tools and Virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Research Use Only Real-Time RT-PCR Primer and Probe Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Communication Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Guidance Documents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Buttons and Badges
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Print Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What's New

email_03Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about COVID-19, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

