

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Self-Checker

Coronavirus Self-Checker ×

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search __ Search Icon Close Icon

Ã Coronavirus

Coronavirus All CDC

Submit __

For a full list of topics: All A-Z Topics

Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Cases in U.S.

Other Languages

EspaÃ±olç¹é«ä¸­æTiáº¿ng Viá»tíêµ­ì´

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * U.S. at a Glance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * New Weekly COVID-19 Surveillance Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * States Reporting Cases to CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cumulative Curve: U.S. Cases by Report Date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Epi Curve: U.S. Cases by Illness Onset
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cases Reported to CDC

Updated April 6, 2020

**This page will be updated daily. Numbers close out at 4 p.m. the day before
reporting.**

***On Saturday and Sunday, the numbers in COVID-19: U.S. at a Glance and the
figure describing the cumulative total number of COVID-19 cases in the United
States will be updated. These numbers are preliminary and have not been
confirmed by state and territorial health departments. CDC will update weekend
numbers the following Monday to reflect health department updates.***

**New Data Available:**  CDC publishes COVIDView: a weekly surveillance
summary of U.S. COVID-19 activity.

CDC is responding to an outbreak of respiratory illness caused by a novel
(new) coronavirus. The outbreak first started in Wuhan, China, but cases have
been identified in a growing number of other locations internationally,
including the United States. In addition to CDC, many public health
laboratories are now testing for the virus that causes COVID-19.

COVID-19: U.S. at a Glance*†

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Total cases: 330,891
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Total deaths: 8,910
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jurisdictions reporting cases: 55 (50 states, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the U.S. Virgin Islands)

* Data include both confirmed and presumptive positive cases of COVID-19 reported to CDC or tested at CDC since January 21, 2020, with the exception of testing results for persons repatriated to the United States from Wuhan, China and Japan. State and local public health departments are now testing and publicly reporting their cases. In the event of a discrepancy between CDC cases and cases reported by state and local public health officials, data reported by states should be considered the most up to date.

† Numbers updated Saturday and Sunday are not confirmed by state and
territorial health departments. These numbers will be modified when numbers
are updated on Monday.

New Weekly COVID-19 Surveillance Report

![COVIDView Newsletter](/coronavirus/2019-ncov/images/covidview-
newsletter.jpg)

**New COVIDView**  
A weekly surveillance summary of U.S. COVID-19 activity. The report summarizes
and interprets key indicators including information related to COVID-19
outpatient visits, emergency department visits, hospitalizations and deaths,
as well as laboratory data.  
**COVIDView** pdf icon

**Hospitalizations**  
U.S. COVID-19 lab-confirmed hospitalizations for all ages.

**Mortality**  
Provisional Death Counts for COVID-19 and pneumonia.

States Reporting Cases of COVID-19 to CDC*

* Data include both confirmed and presumptive positive cases of COVID-19 reported to CDC or tested at CDC since January 21, 2020, with the exception of testing results for persons repatriated to the United States from Wuhan, China and Japan. State and local public health departments are now testing and publicly reporting their cases. In the event of a discrepancy between CDC cases and cases reported by state and local public health officials, data reported by states should be considered the most up to date.

†Self-reported by health department characterizing the level of community
transmission in their jurisdiction as: "Yes, widespread" (defined as:
widespread community transmission across several geographical areas); "Yes,
defined area(s)" (defined as: distinct clusters of cases in a, or a few,
defined geographical area(s)); "Undetermined" (defined as: 1 or more cases but
not classified as "Yes" to community transmission); or "N/A" (defined as: no
cases).

### Cumulative total number of COVID-19 cases in the United States by report
date, January 12, 2020 to April 5, 2020, at 4pm ET (n=330,891)*†

* Does not include cases among persons repatriated to the United States from Wuhan, China and Japan. 

† Numbers updated Saturday and Sunday are not confirmed by state and
territorial health departments. These numbers may be updated when the official
numbers are provided on Monday.

### COVID-19 cases in the United States by date of illness onset, January 12,
2020, to April 5, 2020, at 4pm ET (n=90,004)*

* Does not include cases among persons repatriated to the United States from Wuhan, China and Japan, or U.S.-identified cases where the date of illness onset or specimen collection date has not yet been reported. Date is calculated as illness onset date if known. If not, an estimated illness onset date was calculated using specimen collection date.

Note: On March 24, CDC updated the data included in this figure to include
estimated illness onset date.

Cases of COVID-19 Reported in the US, by Source of Exposure*†

Cases of COVID-19 Reported in the US, by Source of Exposure Travel-related |
1,600  
---|---  
Close contact | 6,332  
Under investigation | 322,959  
**Total cases** | 330,891  
  
* Data include both confirmed and presumptive positive cases of COVID-19 reported to CDC or tested at CDC since January 21, 2020, with the exception of testing results for persons repatriated to the United States from Wuhan, China and Japan. State and local public health departments are now testing and publicly reporting their cases. In the event of a discrepancy between CDC cases and cases reported by state and local public health officials, data reported by states should be considered the most up to date.

† CDC is no longer reporting the number of persons under investigation (PUIs)
that have been tested, as well as PUIs that have tested negative. Now that
states are testing and reporting their own results, CDC's numbers are not
representative of all testing being done nationwide.

Related Pages

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Testing in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Confirmed COVID-19 Cases Global Map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Information for Healthcare Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Guidance for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Situation Summary

Top of Page

Page last reviewed: April 6, 2020

Content source: National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases
(NCIRD), Division of Viral Diseases

homeCoronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Symptoms & Testingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Should You Get Tested
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Prevent Getting Sickplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * How It Spreads
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Protect Yourself
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Cloth Face Coversplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Recommendations for Cloth Face Covers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cloth Face Covers FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Cleaning Your Homeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Detailed Disinfection Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Social Distancing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Daily Life & Copingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Household Checklistplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Detailed Planning Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Stress & Copingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reducing Stigma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Stop the Spread of Rumors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Caring for Childrenplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Talking to Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * If You Have Animals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * If You Are Sickplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What to Do If You Are Sickplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Caring for Yourself at Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Caring for Someone
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * People Who Need Extra Precautionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * People Who Are At Higher Riskplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Older Adults
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * People with Asthma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * People with HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * At Risk for Severe Illness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Others At Riskplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Homelessness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pregnancy & Breastfeeding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What You Can Do
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travelers Returning from International Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Returning Cruise Ship Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel in the US
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Health Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travelers Prohibited from Entry to the US
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FAQ for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Communication Resources for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cases & Latest Updatesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Cases in the US
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Testing in the US
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * World Map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Situation Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC in Action
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Schools, Workplaces & Community Locationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Disinfecting Your Facility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Schools & Child Careplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance for Schools & Child Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQs for Administrators
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Checklist for Teachers and Parents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Open Child Care Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Colleges & Universitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Interim Guidance for Administrators of US Institutions of Higher Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance for Student Foreign Travel for Institutions of Higher Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQs for Administrators
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Businessesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Interim Guidance for Businesses and Employers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Airline Customer Service and Gate Agents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Airport Baggage and Cargo Handlers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Airport Custodial Staff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Airport Passenger Assistance Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Airline Catering Trucks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Aircraft Maintenance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Bus Transit Operators
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Rail Transit Operators
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Transit Maintenance Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Transit Station Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gatherings & Community Eventsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Interim Guidance for Event Planners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Election Polling Locations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQs for Event
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * First Responders and Law Enforcementplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Information for Law Enforcement Personnel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Community- and Faith-Based Organizationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Interim Guidance for Community and Faith Leaders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Checklist to Get Your Organization Ready
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Environmental Cleaning and Disinfection Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Homeless Populationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Screening for Symptoms at Entry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Interim guidance for homeless service providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Retirement Communitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance for Retirement Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Checklist to Stay Healthy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQs for Administrators
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Correctional and Detention Facilitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance for Correctional & Detention Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQs for Administrators, Staff, Incarcerated People & Family Members
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Public Health Communicators
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Healthcare Professionalsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Evaluation & Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Clinical Careplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Therapeutic Options
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Underlying Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Children & COVID-19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Caring for Pregnant Women
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Caring for Patients at Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Discharging Hospitalized Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ending Home Isolationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ending Home Isolation for Immunocompromised Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Telephone Response Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infection Controlplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Infection Control Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQ on Infection Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Using PPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Hand Hygiene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQ on Hand Hygiene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nursing Homes & Long-Term Care Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Dialysis Facilitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Patient Screening at Dialysis Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Blood & Plasma Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Alternate Care Sites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Dental Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pharmacies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Postmortem Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Optimize PPE Supplyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * PPE Burn Rate Calculator
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Eye Protection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gowns
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facemasks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * N95 Respiratorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * N95 Respirator Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Stockpiled N95 Respirators
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Decontamination & Reuse of Filtering Facepiece Respirators
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ventilators
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQ About PPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Potential Exposure at Workplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Return-to-Work Criteria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * First Responder Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Preparedness Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Healthcare Provider Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Steps Healthcare Facilities Can Take
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Healthcare Facility Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Hospital Preparedness Tool
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nursing Home & Long-Term Care Facility Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Get Your Clinic Ready
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Print Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mitigating Staff Shortages
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Operational Considerations for Non-US Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Infection Control in Non-US Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Triaging Sick Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Identifying Sick Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Training for Healthcare Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Departmentsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Evaluating PUIs Residential
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Reporting a PUI or Confirmed Case
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel-Associated Exposures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Community-Related Exposures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Pandemic Preparedness Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Households with Pets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * COVID-19 Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Guidance for Building Water Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Water Transmission and COVID-19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Laboratoriesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FAQs for Laboratories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Lab Workplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC Grows SARS-CoV-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Guidelines for Clinical Specimens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Lab Biosafety Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Laboratory Biosafety and COVID-19: Questions and Answers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Requests for Diagnostic Tools and Virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Research Use Only Real-Time RT-PCR Primer and Probe Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Communication Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Guidance Documents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Buttons and Badges
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Print Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What's New

email_03Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about COVID-19, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

