Link: https://medlineplus.gov/chlamydiainfections.html    
                                Description: Chlamydia is a common sexually transmitted disease that men and women can get. Chlamydia usually does not have symptoms. Learn about tests and prevention.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Chlamydia Infections

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/chlamydiainfections.html

#  Chlamydia Infections

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Diagnosis and Tests

### Learn More

  * Related Issues

### See, Play and Learn

  * Images

### Research

  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Children
  * Women
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is chlamydia?

Chlamydia is a common sexually transmitted disease. It is caused by bacteria
called Chlamydia trachomatis. It can infect both men and women. Women can get
chlamydia in the cervix, rectum, or throat. Men can get chlamydia in the
urethra (inside the penis), rectum, or throat.

### How do you get chlamydia?

You can get chlamydia during oral, vaginal, or anal sex with someone who has
the infection. A woman can also pass chlamydia to her baby during childbirth.

If you've had chlamydia and were treated in the past, you can get re-infected
if you have unprotected sex with someone who has it.

### Who is at risk of getting chlamydia?

Chlamydia is more common in young people, especially young women. You are more
likely to get it if you don't consistently use a condom, or if you have
multiple partners.

### What are the symptoms of chlamydia?

Chlamydia doesn't usually cause any symptoms. So you may not realize that you
have it. People with chlamydia who have no symptoms can still pass the disease
to others. If you do have symptoms, they may not appear until several weeks
after you have sex with an infected partner.

Symptoms in women include

  * Abnormal vaginal discharge, which may have a strong smell
  * A burning sensation when urinating
  * Pain during intercourse

If the infection spreads, you might get lower abdominal pain, pain during sex,
nausea, or fever.

Symptoms in men include

  * Discharge from your penis
  * A burning sensation when urinating
  * Burning or itching around the opening of your penis
  * Pain and swelling in one or both testicles (although this is less common)

If the chlamydia infects the rectum (in men or women), it can cause rectal
pain, discharge, and/or bleeding.

### How is chlamydia diagnosed?

There are lab tests to diagnose chlamydia. Your health care provider may ask
you to provide a urine sample. For women, providers sometimes use (or ask you
to use) a cotton swab to get a sample from your vagina to test for chlamydia.

### Who should be tested for chlamydia?

You should go to your health provider for a test if you have symptoms of
chlamydia, or if you have a partner who has a sexually transmitted disease.
Pregnant women should get a test when they go to their first prenatal visit.

People at higher risk should get checked for chlamydia every year:

  * Sexually active women 25 and younger
  * Older women who have new or multiple sex partners, or a sex partner who has a sexually transmitted disease
  * Men who have sex with men (MSM)

### What other problems can chlamydia cause?

In women, an untreated infection can spread to your uterus and fallopian
tubes, causing pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). PID can cause permanent
damage to your reproductive system. This can lead to long-term pelvic pain,
infertility, and ectopic pregnancy. Women who have had chlamydia infections
more than once are at higher risk of serious reproductive health
complications.

Men often don't have health problems from chlamydia. Sometimes it can infect
the epididymis (the tube that carries sperm). This can cause pain, fever, and,
rarely, infertility.

Both men and women can develop reactive arthritis because of a chlamydia
infection. Reactive arthritis is a type of arthritis that happens as a
"reaction" to an infection in the body.

Babies born to infected mothers can get eye infections and pneumonia from
chlamydia. It may also make it more likely for your baby to be born too early.

Untreated chlamydia may also increase your chances of getting or giving
HIV/AIDS.

### What are the treatments for chlamydia?

Antibiotics will cure the infection. You may get a one-time dose of the
antibiotics, or you may need to take medicine every day for 7 days.
Antibiotics cannot repair any permanent damage that the disease has caused.

To prevent spreading the disease to your partner, you should not have sex
until the infection has cleared up. If you got a one-time dose of antibiotics,
you should wait 7 days after taking the medicine to have sex again. If you
have to take medicine every day for 7 days, you should not have sex again
until you have finished taking all of the doses of your medicine.

It is common to get a repeat infection, so you should get tested again about
three months after treatment.

### Can chlamydia be prevented?

The only sure way to prevent chlamydia is to not have vaginal, anal, or oral
sex.

Correct usage of latex condoms greatly reduces, but does not eliminate, the
risk of catching or spreading chlamydia.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Start Here

  * Chlamydia - CDC Fact Sheet (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Chlamydia Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

  * Epididymitis (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Images

  * Chlamydia (Logical Images)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Chlamydia Infections ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Relation of Chlamydia trachomatis infections to ectopic pregnancy: A meta-analysis and...
  * Article: Chlamydia trachomatis and human herpesvirus 6 infections in ovarian cancer-Casual or...
  * Article: Progress toward Elimination of Trachoma as a Public Health Problem in...
  * Chlamydia Infections -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

  * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
  * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

  * Chlamydia (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)

## Women

  * Chlamydia (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

  * Chlamydia (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Chlamydia - CDC Fact Sheet (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF
  * Chlamydia infections in women (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Chlamydial infections - male (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Condom Fact Sheet in Brief (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
  * Endocervical gram stain (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Lymphogranuloma venereum (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Urethral discharge culture (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Chlamydia Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Chlamydia.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Chlamydia
  * Chlamydia infections in women
  * Chlamydial infections - male
  * Endocervical gram stain
  * Lymphogranuloma venereum
  * Urethral discharge culture

## Related Health Topics

  * Sexually Transmitted Diseases

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Chlamydia Infections is the
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 31 May 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

