Link: https://medlineplus.gov/syphilis.html    
                                Description: Syphilis is a sexually transmitted disease. It causes sores on the genitals, rectum, or mouth. Read about testing, prevention, and treatment.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Syphilis

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/syphilis.html

#  Syphilis

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Diagnosis and Tests

### Learn More

  * Related Issues
  * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

  * Images

### Research

  * Statistics and Research
  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Children
  * Teenagers
  * Men
  * Women
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Syphilis is a sexually transmitted disease caused by bacteria. It infects the
genital area, lips, mouth, or anus of both men and women. You usually get
syphilis from sexual contact with someone who has it. It can also pass from
mother to baby during pregnancy.

The early stage of syphilis usually causes a single, small, painless sore.
Sometimes it causes swelling in nearby lymph nodes. If you do not treat it,
syphilis usually causes a non-itchy skin rash, often on your hands and feet.
Many people do not notice symptoms for years. Symptoms can go away and come
back.

The sores caused by syphilis make it easier to get or give someone HIV during
sex. If you are pregnant, syphilis can cause complications, or you could lose
your baby. In rare cases, syphilis causes serious health problems and even
death.

Syphilis is easy to cure with antibiotics if you catch it early. Correct usage
of latex condoms greatly reduces, but does not completely eliminate, the risk
of catching or spreading syphilis. The most reliable way to avoid infection is
to not have anal, vaginal, or oral sex.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Start Here

  * Syphilis (American Academy of Family Physicians)
  * Syphilis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
  * Syphilis (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Syphilis Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

  * Neurosyphilis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)

## Specifics

  * Tabes Dorsalis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)

## Images

  * Primary Syphilis (Logical Images)

## Statistics and Research

  * Sexually Transmitted Diseases Surveillance, 2017: Syphilis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Syphilis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Syphilis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: The Modern Epidemic of Syphilis.
  * Article: Congenital Syphilis.
  * Article: Young male with syphilitic cerebral arteritis presents with signs of acute...
  * Syphilis -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

  * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
  * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

  * Syphilis (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish
  * Syphilis (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)

## Teenagers

  * Syphilis (Nemours Foundation)
  * Syphilis (Children's Hospital Boston)

## Men

  * Syphilis and MSM (Men Who Have Sex with Men) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Women

  * Syphilis (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health) Also in Spanish
  * Syphilis in pregnancy (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

  * Condom Fact Sheet in Brief (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
  * Congenital syphilis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * CSF-VDRL test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * FTA-ABS test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Neurosyphilis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * RPR test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Syphilis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
  * Syphilis - primary (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Syphilis and MSM (Men Who Have Sex with Men) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF
  * VDRL test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Syphilis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Syphilis2.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Congenital syphilis
  * CSF-VDRL test
  * FTA-ABS test
  * General paresis
  * Gumma
  * Interstitial keratitis
  * Neurosyphilis
  * RPR test
  * Syphilis - primary
  * Syphilitic aseptic meningitis

  * Syphilitic myelopathy
  * VDRL test

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

  * Sexually Transmitted Diseases

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Syphilis is the National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 10 August 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

