

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Self-Checker

Coronavirus Self-Checker ×

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search __ Search Icon Close Icon

Ã Coronavirus

Coronavirus All CDC

Submit __

For a full list of topics: All A-Z Topics

Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Training for Healthcare Professionals

Minus

Related Pages

Clinical Care & Infection Control

#### What Clinicians Need to Know

Learn how to identify persons under investigation for COVID-19, assess risks
for exposures, and care for hospitalized and at home patients.

Webinar: What Clinicians Need to Know

* * *

#### Infection Prevention and Control Recommendations

Learn how to implement infection prevention and control measures for COVID-19,
assess risks for exposures, and optimize the use of personal protective
equipment supplies.

Webinar: Infection Prevention and Control Recommendations

* * *

#### Clinical Management of Critically Ill Adults

Learn clinical characteristics of COVID-19 patients and guidelines on managing
critically ill adults.

Webinar: Clinical Management of Critically Ill Adults

* * *

#### Underlying Medical Conditions and People at Higher Risk

Learn about people who are at higher risk for COVID-19 complications because
of their age or underlying medical condition.

Webinar: Underlying Medical Conditions and People at Higher Risk

* * *

#### Caring for Children and Pregnant Women

Learn about the care of children and pregnant women with COVID-19, including
infection prevention and control measures in inpatient obstetric healthcare
settings.

Webinar: Caring for Children and Pregnant Women

* * *

#### Information for Long-term Care Facilities

Learn about infection prevention and control for COVID-19 in long-term care
facilities, including nursing homes.

Webinar: Information for Long-term Care Facilities

* * *

#### Coronavirus Testing

Learn about testing for COVID-19 and how to advise patients.

Video interview: Coronavirus Testing

* * *

#### Nursing Home Infection Preventionist Training Course

Learn best practices for infection prevention and control in nursing homes.
Free CE.

Self-paced online course: Nursing Home Infection Preventionist Training Course
external icon

Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)

#### Optimization Strategies for Healthcare PPE

Learn strategies for healthcare facilities to optimize PPE supplies such as
eye protection, isolation gowns, facemasks, and N95 respirators.

Webinar: Optimization Strategies for Healthcare PPE

* * *

#### Healthcare Respiratory Protection Resources

Learn about respiratory protection in healthcare settings.

Varied Formats: Healthcare Respiratory Protection Resources

Nonpharmaceutical Interventions (NPIs)

#### Application and Integration of NPIs into Pre-Pandemic Influenza Planning,
Preparedness and Response

Learn about NPIs to help slow the spread of pandemic flu, which may be helpful
for COVID-19. Free CE.

Self-paced online course: Application and Integration of NPIs into Pre-
Pandemic Influenza Planning, Preparedness and Responseexternal icon

* * *

#### The Science of Social Distancing: Part 1

Learn about the science on social distancing, strategies to support it, and
how findings from past pandemics -- as well as the current one -- can shape
responses today.

Webinar: The Science of Social Distancing: Part 1external icon

* * *

#### The Science of Social Distancing: Part 2

Learn more about social distancing. Topics include benefit-risk analysis of
social/physical distancing strategies, including for vulnerable populations;
strategies for mitigating mental health impacts; and what science is available
to guide eventual relaxation of measures.

Webinar: The Science of Social Distancing: Part 2external icon

Emergency Preparedness and Response

#### Crisis & Emergency Risk Communication

Learn how to communicate in a public health emergency. Topics include the
psychology of a crisis, messages and audiences, and community engagement. Free
CE.

Webinar: Crisis & Emergency Risk Communication

* * *

#### Public Health Emergency Law Online Training

Learn how to make informed legal decisions related to emergency preparedness
and response.

Self-paced online course: Public Health Emergency Law Online Trainingexternal
icon

* * *

#### Reproductive Health in Emergency Preparedness and Response

Learn how to address the needs of women of reproductive age during and after
public health emergencies. Free CE.

Self-paced online course: Reproductive Health in Emergency Preparedness and
Response

* * *

#### National Incident Management System (NIMS)

Learn about NIMS, the Incident Command System (ICS), and National Response
Framework.

Self-paced online course: National Incident Management System (NIMS)external
icon

Additional Topics

#### COVID-19 Trainings on TRAIN

Find additional COVID-19 training on TRAIN. Note: Links to non-CDC courses do
not constitute an endorsement by CDC. Only courses offered by CDC Course
Providers have been verified and approved by CDC.

Varied formats: COVID-19 Trainings on TRAINexternal icon

Page last reviewed: April 4, 2020

Content source: National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases
(NCIRD), Division of Viral Diseases

homeCoronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Symptoms & Testingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Should You Get Tested
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Prevent Getting Sickplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * How It Spreads
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Protect Yourself
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Cloth Face Coversplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Recommendations for Cloth Face Covers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cloth Face Covers FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Cleaning Your Homeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Detailed Disinfection Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Social Distancing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Daily Life & Copingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Household Checklistplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Detailed Planning Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Stress & Copingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reducing Stigma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Stop the Spread of Rumors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Caring for Childrenplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Talking to Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * If You Have Animals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * If You Are Sickplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What to Do If You Are Sickplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Caring for Yourself at Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Caring for Someone
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * People Who Need Extra Precautionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * People Who Are At Higher Riskplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Older Adults
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * People with Asthma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * People with HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * At Risk for Severe Illness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Others At Riskplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Homelessness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pregnancy & Breastfeeding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What You Can Do
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travelers Returning from International Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Returning Cruise Ship Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel in the US
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Health Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travelers Prohibited from Entry to the US
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FAQ for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Communication Resources for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cases & Latest Updatesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Cases in the US
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Testing in the US
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * World Map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Situation Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC in Action
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Schools, Workplaces & Community Locationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Disinfecting Your Facility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Schools & Child Careplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance for Schools & Child Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQs for Administrators
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Checklist for Teachers and Parents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Open Child Care Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Colleges & Universitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Interim Guidance for Administrators of US Institutions of Higher Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance for Student Foreign Travel for Institutions of Higher Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQs for Administrators
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Businessesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Interim Guidance for Businesses and Employers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Airline Customer Service and Gate Agents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Airport Baggage and Cargo Handlers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Airport Custodial Staff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Airport Passenger Assistance Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Airline Catering Trucks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Aircraft Maintenance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Bus Transit Operators
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Rail Transit Operators
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Transit Maintenance Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Transit Station Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gatherings & Community Eventsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Interim Guidance for Event Planners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Election Polling Locations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQs for Event
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * First Responders and Law Enforcementplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Information for Law Enforcement Personnel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Community- and Faith-Based Organizationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Interim Guidance for Community and Faith Leaders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Checklist to Get Your Organization Ready
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Environmental Cleaning and Disinfection Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Homeless Populationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Screening for Symptoms at Entry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Interim guidance for homeless service providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Retirement Communitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance for Retirement Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Checklist to Stay Healthy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQs for Administrators
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Correctional and Detention Facilitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance for Correctional & Detention Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQs for Administrators, Staff, Incarcerated People & Family Members
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Public Health Communicators
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Healthcare Professionalsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Evaluation & Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Clinical Careplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Therapeutic Options
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Underlying Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Children & COVID-19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Caring for Pregnant Women
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Caring for Patients at Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Discharging Hospitalized Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ending Home Isolationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ending Home Isolation for Immunocompromised Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Telephone Response Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infection Controlplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Infection Control Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQ on Infection Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Using PPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Hand Hygiene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQ on Hand Hygiene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nursing Homes & Long-Term Care Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Dialysis Facilitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Patient Screening at Dialysis Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Blood & Plasma Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Alternate Care Sites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Dental Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pharmacies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Postmortem Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Optimize PPE Supplyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * PPE Burn Rate Calculator
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Eye Protection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gowns
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facemasks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * N95 Respiratorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * N95 Respirator Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Stockpiled N95 Respirators
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Decontamination & Reuse of Filtering Facepiece Respirators
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ventilators
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQ About PPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Potential Exposure at Workplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Return-to-Work Criteria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * First Responder Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Preparedness Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Healthcare Provider Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Steps Healthcare Facilities Can Take
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Healthcare Facility Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Hospital Preparedness Tool
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nursing Home & Long-Term Care Facility Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Get Your Clinic Ready
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Print Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mitigating Staff Shortages
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Operational Considerations for Non-US Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Infection Control in Non-US Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Triaging Sick Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Identifying Sick Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Training for Healthcare Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Departmentsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Evaluating PUIs Residential
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Reporting a PUI or Confirmed Case
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel-Associated Exposures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Community-Related Exposures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Pandemic Preparedness Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Households with Pets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * COVID-19 Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Guidance for Building Water Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Water Transmission and COVID-19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Laboratoriesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FAQs for Laboratories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Lab Workplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC Grows SARS-CoV-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Guidelines for Clinical Specimens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Lab Biosafety Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Laboratory Biosafety and COVID-19: Questions and Answers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Requests for Diagnostic Tools and Virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Research Use Only Real-Time RT-PCR Primer and Probe Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Communication Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Guidance Documents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Buttons and Badges
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Print Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What's New

email_03Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about COVID-19, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

