Link: https://medlineplus.gov/gonorrhea.html    
                                Description: Gonorrhea is a sexually transmitted disease. Men and women can get it. It doesn&#39;t always cause symptoms. Read about testing, prevention, and treatment.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Gonorrhea

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/gonorrhea.html

#  Gonorrhea

Also called: The clap

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Diagnosis and Tests

### Learn More

  * Related Issues
  * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

  * No links available

### Research

  * Statistics and Research
  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Teenagers
  * Women
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Gonorrhea is a sexually transmitted disease. It is most common in young
adults. The bacteria that cause gonorrhea can infect the genital tract, mouth,
or anus. You can get gonorrhea during vaginal, oral, or anal sex with an
infected partner. A pregnant woman can pass it to her baby during childbirth.

Gonorrhea does not always cause symptoms. In men, gonorrhea can cause pain
when urinating and discharge from the penis. If untreated, it can cause
problems with the prostate and testicles.

In women, the early symptoms of gonorrhea often are mild. Later, it can cause
bleeding between periods, pain when urinating, and increased discharge from
the vagina. If untreated, it can lead to pelvic inflammatory disease, which
causes problems with pregnancy and infertility.

Your health care provider will diagnose gonorrhea with lab tests. Treatment is
with antibiotics. Treating gonorrhea is becoming more difficult because drug-
resistant strains are increasing. Correct usage of latex condoms greatly
reduces, but does not eliminate, the risk of catching or spreading gonorrhea.
The most reliable way to avoid infection is to not have anal, vaginal, or oral
sex.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Start Here

  * Gonorrhea (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
  * Primary Gonorrhea Infection (Logical Images)

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Gonorrhea Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

  * Epididymitis (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

  * Antibiotic-Resistant Gonorrhea (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Statistics and Research

  * Gonorrhea Statistics (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Gonorrhea ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Australian Gonococcal Surveillance Programme 1 April to 30 June 2018.
  * Article: Australian Gonococcal Surveillance Programme Annual Report, 2018.
  * Article: Australian Gonococcal Surveillance Programme 1 January to 31 March 2019.
  * Gonorrhea -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

  * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
  * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Teenagers

  * Gonorrhea (Nemours Foundation)

## Women

  * Gonorrhea (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

  * Condom Fact Sheet in Brief (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
  * Endocervical gram stain (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Gonococcal arthritis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Gonorrhea (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Rectal culture (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Urethral discharge culture (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Gonorrhea](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Gonorrhea2.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Endocervical gram stain
  * Gonococcal arthritis
  * Gonorrhea
  * Gram stain of urethral discharge
  * Rectal culture
  * Urethral discharge culture

## Related Health Topics

  * Sexually Transmitted Diseases

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Gonorrhea is the National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 11 April 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

