

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Attention-Deficit / Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Is it ADHD?

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

![Two children jumping on green hills](/ncbddd/adhd/features/images/two-
children-jumping-green-hills.jpg)

**Learn about the symptoms of ADHD and what to do if you 're concerned that
your child might have this disorder.**

Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is one of the most common
neurobehavioral disorders of childhood. It is usually first diagnosed in
childhood and often lasts into adulthood.

### Signs and Symptoms

It is normal for children to have trouble focusing and behaving at one time or
another. However, children with ADHD do not just grow out of these behaviors.
The symptoms continue, can be severe, and can cause difficulty at school, at
home, or with friends.

A child with ADHD might:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * have a hard time paying attention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * daydream a lot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * not seem to listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * be easily distracted from schoolwork or play
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * forget things
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * be in constant motion or unable to stay seated
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * squirm or fidget
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * talk too much
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * not be able to play quietly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * act and speak without thinking
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * have trouble taking turns
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * interrupt others

### Diagnosis of ADHD

Deciding if a child has ADHD is a process with several steps. There is no
single test to diagnose ADHD, and many other problems, like anxiety,
depression, sleep problems, and certain types of learning disabilities, can
have similar symptoms. One step of the process involves having a medical exam,
including hearing and vision tests, to rule out other problems with symptoms
like ADHD. Another part of the process may include a checklist for rating ADHD
symptoms and taking a history of the child from parents, teachers, and
sometimes, the child.

### Treatment for ADHD

ADHD can be successfully managed. Treatment options for ADHD include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Behavior therapy, including training for parents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Medications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * School accommodations and interventions

In most cases, ADHD is best treated with a combination of behavior therapy and
medication. For preschool-aged children (4-5 years of age) with ADHD, behavior
therapy, particularly training for parents, is recommended as the first line
of treatment. What works best can depend on the child and family. Good
treatment plans will include close monitoring, follow-ups, and making changes,
if needed, along the way.

### Get Help!

If you or your doctor has concerns about ADHD, you can take your child to a
specialist such as a child psychologist or developmental pediatrician, or you
can contact your local early intervention agency (for children under 3) or
public school (for children 3 and older).

To find help in your area, look for the closest Parent Center.external icon

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) funds the National
Resource Center on ADHDexternal icon: A Program of CHADD - Children and Adults
with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder. Their web site has links to
information for people with ADHD and their families. The National Resource
Center on ADHD operates a call center (1-800-233-4050) with trained staff to
answer questions about ADHD.

In order to make sure your child reaches his or her full potential, it is very
important to get help for ADHD as early as possible.

### More Information

CDC's Information on ADHD  
CDC's Information on Child Development  
CDC's Information on Children's Mental Health  
National Resource Center on ADHDexternal icon

Page last reviewed: August 28, 2019

Content source: National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities

home ADHD Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What is ADHD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Symptoms and Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parent Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Other Concerns and Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data and Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * ADHD Throughout the Years
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Diagnosis Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Treatment Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * State Informationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Behavioral Health Service Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Diagnosis and Medication Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Medication Treatment and Behavior Therapy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Medication and Psychological Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * PLAY Study
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * PLAY Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Focus for the Future Initiative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Articles and Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Behavior Therapy First for Young Children with ADHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Protecting the Health of Children with ADHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Is It ADHD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Materials and Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Parents Can Expect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Parents Learn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ADHD Treatments for Preschoolers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ADHD Treatments for Children and Teens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Links to Other Resources

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this topic, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

