

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Attention-Deficit / Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Other Concerns and Conditions with ADHD

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

**On This Page**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Behavior or Conduct Problems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Learning Disorder
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Anxiety and Depression
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Difficult Peer Relationships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Risk of Injuries

ADHD often occurs with other disorders. Many children with ADHD have other
disorders as well as ADHD, such as behavior or conduct problems, learning
disorders, anxiety and depression1,2.

Learn about how many children with ADHD have another disorder

The combination of ADHD with other disorders often presents extra challenges
for children, parents, educators, and healthcare providers. Therefore, it is
important for healthcare providers to screen every child with ADHD for other
disorders and problems. This page provides an overview of the more common
conditions and concerns that can occur with ADHD. Talk with your healthcare
provider if you have concerns about your child's symptoms.

![ADHD-Behavior Problems, Learning Disorder, Peer Problems, Increased
Injuries, Anxiety &Depression](/ncbddd/adhd/images/ADHD-cooccurring-
conditions-385px.jpg)

The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends

Every child with ADHD should be screened for other disorders and problems.

Read more about the recommendations here. pdf icon[PDF - 640 KB]external icon

### Behavior or Conduct Problems

Children occasionally act angry or defiant around adults or respond
aggressively when they are upset. When these behaviors persist over time, or
are severe, they can become a behavior disorder. Children with ADHD are more
likely than other children to be diagnosed with a behavior disorder such as
Oppositional Defiant Disorder or Conduct Disorder.

##### Oppositional Defiant Disorder

When children act out persistently so that it causes serious problems at home,
in school, or with peers, they may be diagnosed with Oppositional Defiant
Disorder (ODD). ODD is one of the most common disorders occurring with ADHD.
ODD usually starts before 8 years of age, but can also occur in adolescents.
Children with ODD may be most likely to act oppositional or defiant around
people they know well, such as family members or a regular care provider.
Children with ODD show these behaviors more often than other children their
age.

Examples of ODD behaviors include

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Often losing their temper
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Arguing with adults or refusing to comply with adults' rules or requests
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Often getting angry, being resentful, or wanting to hurt someone who they feel has hurt them or caused problems for them
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Deliberately annoying others; easily becoming annoyed with others
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Often blaming other people for their own mistakes or misbehavior

Learn more about ODDexternal icon

##### Conduct Disorder

Conduct Disorder (CD) is diagnosed when children show a behavioral pattern of
aggression toward others, and serious violations of rules and social norms at
home, in school, and with peers. These behaviors can lead to breaking the law
and being jailed. Having ADHD makes a child more likely to be diagnosed with
CD. Children with CD are more likely than other children to get injured, and
to have difficulties getting along with peers.

Examples of CD behaviors include

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Breaking serious rules, such as running away, staying out at night when told not to, or skipping school
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Being aggressive in a way that causes harm, such as bullying, fighting, or being cruel to animals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Lying and stealing, or damaging other people's property on purpose

##### Treatment for disruptive behavior disorders

Starting treatment early is important. Treatment is most effective if it fits
the needs of the child and family. The first step to treatment is to have a
comprehensive evaluation by a mental health professional. Some of the signs of
behavior problems, such as not following rules, are also signs of ADHD, so it
is important to get a careful evaluation to see if a child has both
conditions. For younger children, the treatment with the strongest evidence is
behavioral parent training, where a therapist helps the parent learn effective
ways to strengthen the parent-child relationship and respond to the child's
behavior. For school-age children and teens, an often-used effective treatment
is combination training and therapy that includes the child, the family, and
the school. Sometimes medication is part of the treatment.

Learn more about CDexternal icon

 Top of Page

### Learning Disorder

![Teacher working with student](/ncbddd/adhd/images/adhd-conditions1.jpg)

Many children with ADHD also have a learning disorder (LD). This is in
addition to other symptoms of ADHD, such as difficulties paying attention,
staying on task, or being organized, which can also keep a child from doing
well in school.

Having a learning disorder means that a child has a clear difficulty in one or
more areas of learning, even when their intelligence is not affected. Learning
disorders include

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Dyslexia - difficulty with reading
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Dyscalculia - difficulty with math
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Dysgraphia - difficulty with writing

The combination of problems caused by having ADHD and LD can make it
particularly hard for a child to succeed in school. Properly diagnosing each
disorder is an important part of getting the right kind of help for the child.

##### Treatment for learning disorders

Children with learning disorders often need extra help and instruction that is
specialized for them. Having a learning disorder can qualify a child for
special education services in school. Because children with ADHD often have
difficulty in school, the first step is a careful evaluation to see if the
problems are also caused by a learning disorder. Schools usually do their own
testing to see if a child needs intervention. Parents, healthcare providers,
and the school can work together to find the right referrals and treatment.

Learn more about LD

Learn more about learning and attention issuesexternal icon

 Top of Page

### Anxiety and Depression

##### Anxiety

Many children have fears and worries. However, when a child experiences so
many fears and worries that they interfere with school, home, or play
activities, it is an anxiety disorder. Children with ADHD are more likely than
those without to develop an anxiety disorder.

Examples of anxiety disorders include

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Separation anxiety - being very afraid when they are away from family
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Social anxiety - being very afraid of school and other places where they may meet people
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * General anxiety - being very worried about the future and about bad things happening to them

##### Depression

Occasionally being sad or feeling hopeless is a part of every child's life.
When children feel persistent sadness and hopelessness, it can cause problems.
Children with ADHD are more likely than children without ADHD to develop
childhood depression. Children may be more likely to feel hopeless and sad
when they can't control their ADHD symptoms and the symptoms interfere with
doing well at school or getting along with family and friends.

Examples of behaviors often seen when children are depressed include

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Feeling sad or hopeless a lot of the time
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Not wanting to do things that are fun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Having a hard time focusing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Feeling worthless or useless

Children with ADHD often have a hard time focusing on things that are not very
interesting to them. Depression can make it hard to focus on things that are
normally fun. Changes in eating and sleeping habits can also be a sign of
depression. For children with ADHD who take medication, changes in eating and
sleeping can also be side-effects from the medication rather than signs of
depression. Talk with your healthcare provider if you have concerns.

Extreme depression can lead to thoughts of suicide. Read more about suicide
prevention.

##### Treatment for anxiety and depression

The first step to treatment is to talk with a healthcare provider to get an
evaluation. Some signs of depression, like having a hard time focusing, are
also signs of ADHD, so it is important to get a careful evaluation to see if a
child has both conditions. A mental health professional can develop a therapy
plan that works best for the child and family. Early treatment is important,
and can include child therapy, family therapy, or a combination of both. The
school can also be included in therapy programs. For very young children,
involving parents in treatment is very important. Cognitive behavioral therapy
is one form of therapy that is used to treat anxiety or depression,
particularly in older children. It helps the child change negative thoughts
into more positive, effective ways of thinking. Consultation with a health
provider can help determine if medication should also be part of the
treatment.

Learn more about anxietyexternal icon

Learn more about depressionexternal icon

Learn about the FDA's warning when using antidepressants with young
peopleexternal icon

 Top of Page

### Difficult Peer Relationships

![Photo: Child being ridiculed by peers](/ncbddd/adhd/images/adhd-peer.jpg)

ADHD can make peer relationships or friendships very difficult. Having friends
is important to children's well-being and may be very important to their long-
term development.

Although some children with ADHD have no trouble getting along with other
children, others have difficulty in their relationships with their peers; for
example, they might not have close friends, or might even be rejected by other
children. Children who have difficulty making friends might also more likely
have anxiety, behavioral and mood disorders, substance abuse, or delinquency
as teenagers.

##### How does ADHD interfere with peer relationships?

Exactly how ADHD contributes to social problems is not fully understood.
Children who are inattentive sometimes seem shy or withdrawn to their peers.
Children with symptoms of impulsivity/hyperactivity may be rejected by their
peers because they are intrusive, may not wait their turn, or may act
aggressively. In addition, children with ADHD are also more likely than those
without ADHD to have other disorders that interfere with getting along with
others.

##### Having ADHD does not mean a child won't have friends.

Not everyone with ADHD has difficulty getting along with others. For those
children who do have difficulty, many things can be done to help them with
relationships. The earlier a child's difficulties with peers are noticed, the
more successful intervention may be. Although researchers don't have
definitive answers on what works best for children with ADHD, some things
parents might consider as they help their child build and strengthen peer
relationships are:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pay attention to how children get along with peers. These relationships can be just as important as grades to school success.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Regularly talk with people who play important roles in your child's life (such as teachers, school counselors, after-school activity leaders, healthcare providers, etc.). Keep updated on your child's social development in community and school settings.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Involve your child in activities with other children. Talk with other parents, sports coaches and other involved adults about any progress or problems that may develop with your child.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Peer programs can be helpful, particularly for older children and teenagers. Social skills training alone has not shown to be effective, but peer programs where children practice getting along with others can helpexternal icon. Schools and communities often have such programs available. You may want to talk to your healthcare provider and someone at your child's school about programs that might help.

 Top of Page

### Risk of Injuries

![Child on bike](/ncbddd/adhd/images/adhd-conditions3.jpg)

Children and adolescents with ADHD are likely to get hurt more often and more
severely than peers without ADHD. Research indicates that children with ADHD
are significantly more likely to

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Get injured while walking or riding a bicycle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Have head injuries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Injure more than one part of their body
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Be hospitalized for unintentional poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Be admitted to intensive care units or have an injury resulting in disability

More research is needed to understand why children with ADHD get injured, but
it is likely that being inattentive and impulsive puts children at risk. For
example, a young child with ADHD may not look for oncoming traffic while
riding a bicycle or crossing the street, or may do something dangerous without
thinking of the possible consequences. Teenagers with ADHD who drive may take
unnecessary risks, may forget rules, or may not pay attention to traffic.

**There are many ways to protect children from harm and keep them safe.
Parents and other adults can take these steps to protect children with ADHD.**
**Learn more about CDC 's Protect the Ones You Love initiative**.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Always have your child wear a helmet when riding a bike, skateboard, scooter, or skates. Remind children as often as necessary to watch for cars and to teach them how to be safe around traffic.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Supervise children when they are involved in activities or in places where injuries are more likely, such as when climbing or when in or around a swimming pool.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Keep potentially harmful household products, medications, and tools out of the reach of young children.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Teens with ADHD are at extra risk when driving. They need to be extra careful to avoid distractions like driving with other teens in the car, talking on a cell phone, texting, eating, or playing with the radio. Like all teens, they need to avoid alcohol and drug use, and driving when drowsy.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Parents should discuss rules of the road, why they are important to follow, and consequences for breaking them with their teens. Parents can create parent-teen driving agreements that put these rules in writing to set clear expectations and limits. Learn more about what parents can do from CDC's Parents Are the Key campaign.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * For more injury prevention tips, visit CDC's Injury Center.

 Top of Page

###  References:

Danielson, M. L., Bitsko, R.H., Ghandour, R.M, Holbrook, J.R., Kogan, M.D., &
Blumberg, S.J. (2018). Prevalence of parent-reported ADHD diagnosis and
associated treatment among U.S. children and adolescents, 2016. Journal of
Clinical Child & Adolescent Psychology, 47(2): 199-212.

DuPaul, G. J., Gormley, M.J., & Laracy, S.D. (2013). Comorbidity of LD and
ADHD: Implications of DSM-5 for assessment and treatment. Journal of Learning
Disabilities, 46(1): 43-51.

Strine, T.W., Lesesne, C.A., Okoro, C.A., McGuire, L.C., Chapman, D.P.,
Balluz, L.S., & Mokdad, A.H. (2006). Emotional and behavioral difficulties and
impairments in everyday functioning among children with a history of
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder. _Prevention of Chronic Disorders_ ,
_3_ (2):A52. Epub 2006 Mar 15.

Jerome, L., Segal, A., & Habinski, L. (2006). What we know about ADHD and
driving risk: A literature review, meta-analysis and critique. _Journal of the
Canadian Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, 15_ (3), 105-125.

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Children's Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Child Development
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Positive Parenting Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Injury, Violence, and Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Safe and Healthy Kids and Teens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * A-Z Index of Birth Defects, Blood Disorders & Disabilities

Page last reviewed: August 27, 2019

Content source: National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities

home ADHD Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What is ADHD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Symptoms and Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parent Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Other Concerns and Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data and Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * ADHD Throughout the Years
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Diagnosis Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Treatment Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * State Informationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Behavioral Health Service Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Diagnosis and Medication Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Medication Treatment and Behavior Therapy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Medication and Psychological Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * PLAY Study
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * PLAY Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Focus for the Future Initiative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Articles and Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Behavior Therapy First for Young Children with ADHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Protecting the Health of Children with ADHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Is It ADHD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Materials and Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Parents Can Expect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Parents Learn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ADHD Treatments for Preschoolers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ADHD Treatments for Children and Teens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Links to Other Resources

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this topic, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

