Link: https://medlineplus.gov/genitalherpes.html    
                                Description: Genital herpes is a sexually transmitted disease caused by a herpes simplex virus (HSV). Learn about symptoms, testing, prevention, and treatments.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Genital Herpes

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/genitalherpes.html

#  Genital Herpes

Also called: Herpes genitalis

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Diagnosis and Tests

### Learn More

  * No links available

### See, Play and Learn

  * Images

### Research

  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Children
  * Teenagers
  * Women
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Genital herpes is a sexually transmitted disease (STD) caused by a herpes
simplex virus (HSV). It can cause sores on your genital or rectal area,
buttocks, and thighs. You can get it from having vaginal, anal, or oral sex
with someone who has it. The virus can spread even when sores are not present.
Mothers can also infect their babies during childbirth.

Symptoms of herpes are called outbreaks. You usually get sores near the area
where the virus has entered the body. The sores are blisters which break and
become painful, and then heal. Sometimes people do not know they have herpes
because they have no symptoms or very mild symptoms. The virus can be more
serious in newborn babies or in people with weak immune systems.

Repeat outbreaks are common, especially during the first year. Over time, you
get them less often and the symptoms become milder. The virus stays in your
body for life.

There are tests that can diagnose genital herpes. There is no cure. However,
medicines can help lessen symptoms, decrease outbreaks, and lower the risk of
passing the virus to others. Correct usage of latex condoms can reduce, but
not eliminate, the risk of catching or spreading herpes. The most reliable way
to avoid infection is to not have anal, vaginal, or oral sex.

## Start Here

  * Genital Herpes (American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists)

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Herpes (HSV) Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Images

  * Genital Herpes (Logical Images)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Herpes Genitalis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Immune responses to a HSV-2 polynucleotide immunotherapy COR-1 in HSV-2 positive...
  * Article: Herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) IgG index values in two...
  * Article: Herpes simplex virus type 1 epidemiology in Latin America and the...

## Find an Expert

  * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
  * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

  * Genital Herpes (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)

## Teenagers

  * Genital Herpes (Nemours Foundation)

## Women

  * Genital Herpes (American College of Nurse-Midwives) \- PDF
  * Genital Herpes (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

  * Condom Fact Sheet in Brief (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
  * Genital herpes (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Genital Herpes (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Genital herpes - self-care (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Herpes viral culture of lesion (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Serum herpes simplex antibodies (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Genital Herpes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GenitalHerpes.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Genital herpes
  * Genital herpes - self-care
  * Herpes viral culture of lesion
  * Serum herpes simplex antibodies

## Related Health Topics

  * Herpes Simplex
  * Sexually Transmitted Diseases

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Genital Herpes is the National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 31 August 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

