

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Attention-Deficit / Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# ADHD in the Classroom: Helping Children Succeed in School

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

Children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) experience more
obstacles in their path to success than the average student. The symptoms of
ADHD, such as inability to pay attention, difficulty sitting still, and
difficulty controlling impulses, can make it hard for children with this
diagnosis to do well in school.

To meet the needs of children with ADHD, schools may offer

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * ADHD treatments, such as behavioral classroom management or organizational training;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Special education services; or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accommodations to lessen the effect of ADHD on their learning.

### Classroom Treatment Strategies for ADHD Students

There are some school-based management strategies shown to be effective for
ADHD students: behavioral classroom management and organizational training.1

Did you know?

Parents report that only about 1 in 3 children with ADHD receive behavioral
classroom management.2

The **behavioral classroom management** approach encourages a student's
positive behaviors in the classroom, through a reward systems or a daily
report card, and discourages their negative behaviors. This teacher-led
approach has been shown to influence student behavior in a constructive
manner, increasing academic engagement. Although tested mostly in elementary
schools, behavioral classroom management has been shown to work students of
all ages.1  
**Organizational training** teaches children time management, planning skills,
and ways to keep school materials organized in order to optimize student
learning and reduce distractions. This management strategy has been tested
with children and adolescents.1

These two management strategies require trained staff--including teachers,
counselors, or school psychologists--follow a specific plan to teach and
support positive behavior.

The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) recommends that the school
environment, program, or placement is a part of any ADHD treatment plan. AAP
also recommends teacher-administered behavior therapy as a treatment for
school-aged children with ADHD. You can talk to your child's healthcare
provider and teachers about working together to support your child.

### Special Education Services and Accommodations

Most children with ADHD receive some school services, such as special
education services and accommodations. There are two laws that govern special
services and accommodations for children with disabilities:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973

The support a child with ADHD receives at school will depend on if they meet
the eligibility requirements for one of two federal plans funded by IDEA and
Section 504: an individualized education program (IEP) or a 504 Plan.

##### What are the main differences between the two Plans?

IEPs provide _individualized special education services_ to meet the unique
needs of the child.

A 504 Plan provides services and changes _to the learning environment_ to meet
the needs of the child as adequately as other students.3

Learn more about IEP and 504 Plans pdf icon[PDF - 2.75 MB]external icon

### Accommodations

IEP and 504 Plans can offer accommodations for students to help them manage
their ADHD, including:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Extra time on tests;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instruction and assignments tailored to the child;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Positive reinforcement and feedback;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Using technology to assist with tasks;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Allowing breaks or time to move around;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Changes to the environment to limit distraction; and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Extra help with staying organized.

Did you know?

Parents of children with ADHD report receiving more services through an IEP
than through a 504 plan.2

There is limited information about which types of accommodations are effective
for children with ADHD.3 However, there is evidence that setting clear
expectations, providing immediate positive feedback, and communicating daily
with parents through a daily report card can help.4

### What Teachers Can Do To Help

For teachers, helping children manage their ADHD symptoms can present a
challenge. Most children with ADHD are not enrolled in special education
classes, but do need extra assistance on a daily basis. The National Resource
Center on ADHD provides information for teachers from experts on how to help
students with ADHD.external icon

Here are some tips for classroom success.

Communication

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Give frequent feedback and attention to positive behavior;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Be sensitive to the influence of ADHD on emotions, such as self-esteem issues or difficulty regulating feelings;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Provide extra warnings before transitions and changes in routines; and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Understand that children with ADHD may become deeply absorbed in activities that interest them (hyper-focus) and may need extra assistance shifting their attention.

##### Assignments and Tasks

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Make assignments clear--check with the student to see if they understand what they need to do;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Provide choices to show mastery (for example, let the student choose among written essay, oral report, online quiz, or hands-on project;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Make sure assignments are not long and repetitive. Shorter assignments that provide a little challenge without being too hard may work well;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Allow breaks--for children with ADHD, paying attention takes extra effort and can be very tiring;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Allow time to move and exercise;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Minimize distractions in the classroom; and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Use organizational tools, such as a homework folder, to limit the number of things the child has to track.

##### Develop a Plan That Fits the Child

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Observe and talk with the student about what helps or distracts them (for example, fidget tools, limiting eye contact when listening, background music, or moving while learning can be beneficial or distracting depending on the child);
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Communicate with parents on a regular basis; and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Involve the school counselor or psychologist.

Close collaboration between the school, parents, and healthcare providers will
help ensure the child gets the right support.

### Parent Education and Support

![Parents excited about their child's grades](/ncbddd/adhd/images/adhd-
treament1.jpg)

CDC funds the National Resource Center on ADHD (NRC), a program of Children
and Adults with Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (CHADD). The NRC
provides resources, information, and advice for parents on how to help their
child. Learn more about their services.external icon

##### How to best advocate for your child

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Understand your child's diagnosis, how it impacts their education, and what can be done at home to help.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Understand your child's IEP. If you have questions, don't be afraid to ask.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Speak with your child's teacher.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * When possible, obtain written documentation from teachers, administrators, or other professionals working with your child.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Know your rights.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Play an active role in preparing your child's IEP or 504 Plan.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Keep careful records, including written documentation, communication between home and school, progress reports, and evaluations.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Try to maintain a good working relationship with the school while being a strong advocate for your child.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Communicate any concerns you may have about your child's progress or IEP or 504 Plan.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Encourage your child every day, and devise a system to help with homework and other school projects.5

##### What every parent should know

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * School support and services are regulated by laws. The U.S. Department of Education has developed a "Know your rights" letter for parents pdf icon[PDF - 181 KB]external icon and a resource guide for educators pdf icon[PDF - 956 KB]external icon to help educators, families, students, and other interested groups better understand how these laws apply to students with ADHD so that they can get the services and education they need to be successful.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Healthcare providers play an important part in collaborating with schools to help children get the special services they need. Read more about the role of healthcare providers in assisting children with special needsexternal icon.

### More Information

Learn more about education services and accommodations.external icon  
Learn more about how to help a child with attention and learning
issues.external icon  
Effective child therapy: ADHDexternal icon  
The National Resource Center on ADHD.

### Reference

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. Evans S, Owens J, Bunford N. Evidence-based psychosocial treatments for children and adolescents with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder. _Journal of Clinical Child & Adolescent Psychology_ 2014 _;_ 43(4):527-551 [Read overviewexternal icon]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2. DuPaul GJ, Chronis-Tuscano A, Danielson ML, Visser SN **. Predictors of receipt of school services in a national sample of youth with ADHD.** _Journal of Attention Disorders_ Published online December 10, 2018. [Read summaryexternal icon _]_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3. Harrison JR, Bunford N, Evans SW, Owens JS. Educational accommodations for students with behavioral challenges: A systematic review of the literature. _Review of Educational Research_ 2013;83(4):551-97.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4. Moore DA, Russell AE, Matthews J, Ford TJ, Rogers M, Ukoumunne OC, et al. School-based interventions for attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder: A systematic review with multiple synthesis methods. _Review of Education._ Published online October 18, 2018.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5. https://chadd.org/for-parents/individuals-with-disabilities-education-act/external icon

Page last reviewed: November 7, 2019

Content source: National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities

home ADHD Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What is ADHD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Symptoms and Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parent Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Other Concerns and Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data and Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * ADHD Throughout the Years
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Diagnosis Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Treatment Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * State Informationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Behavioral Health Service Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Diagnosis and Medication Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Medication Treatment and Behavior Therapy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Medication and Psychological Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * PLAY Study
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * PLAY Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Focus for the Future Initiative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Articles and Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Behavior Therapy First for Young Children with ADHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Protecting the Health of Children with ADHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Is It ADHD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Materials and Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Parents Can Expect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Parents Learn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ADHD Treatments for Preschoolers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ADHD Treatments for Children and Teens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Links to Other Resources

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this topic, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

