

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Attention-Deficit / Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Symptoms and Diagnosis of ADHD

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

![Group of children](/ncbddd/adhd/images/adhd-new.jpg)

Deciding if a child has ADHD is a process with several steps. This page gives
you an overview of how ADHD is diagnosed. There is no single test to diagnose
ADHD, and many other problems, like sleep disorders, anxiety, depression, and
certain types of learning disabilities, can have similar symptoms.

If you are concerned about whether a child might have ADHD, the first step is
to talk with a healthcare provider to find out if the symptoms fit the
diagnosis. The diagnosis can be made by a mental health professional, like a
psychologist or psychiatrist, or by a primary care provider, like a
pediatrician.

The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) recommends that healthcare providers
ask parents, teachers, and other adults who care for the child about the
child's behavior in different settings, like at home, school, or with peers.
Read more about the recommendations.

The healthcare provider should also determine whether the child has another
condition that can either explain the symptoms better, or that occurs at the
same time as ADHD. Read more about other concerns and conditions.

### How is ADHD diagnosed?

Healthcare providers use the guidelines in the American Psychiatric
Association's Diagnostic and Statistical Manual, Fifth edition (DSM-5)1, to
help diagnose ADHD. This diagnostic standard helps ensure that people are
appropriately diagnosed and treated for ADHD. Using the same standard across
communities can also help determine how many children have ADHD, and how
public health is impacted by this condition.

Here are the criteria in shortened form. Please note that they are presented
just for your information. Only trained healthcare providers can diagnose or
treat ADHD.

### DSM-5 Criteria for ADHD

People with ADHD show a persistent pattern of inattention and/or
hyperactivity-impulsivity that interferes with functioning or development:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. **Inattention: Six or more symptoms of inattention for children up to age 16 years, or five or more for adolescents age 17 years and older and adults; symptoms of inattention have been present for at least 6 months, and they are inappropriate for developmental level:**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Often fails to give close attention to details or makes careless mistakes in schoolwork, at work, or with other activities.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Often has trouble holding attention on tasks or play activities.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Often does not seem to listen when spoken to directly.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Often does not follow through on instructions and fails to finish schoolwork, chores, or duties in the workplace (e.g., loses focus, side-tracked).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Often has trouble organizing tasks and activities.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Often avoids, dislikes, or is reluctant to do tasks that require mental effort over a long period of time (such as schoolwork or homework).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Often loses things necessary for tasks and activities (e.g. school materials, pencils, books, tools, wallets, keys, paperwork, eyeglasses, mobile telephones).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Is often easily distracted
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Is often forgetful in daily activities.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2. **Hyperactivity and Impulsivity: Six or more symptoms of hyperactivity-impulsivity for children up to age 16 years, or five or more for adolescents age 17 years and older and adults; symptoms of hyperactivity-impulsivity have been present for at least 6 months to an extent that is disruptive and inappropriate for the person 's developmental level:**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Often fidgets with or taps hands or feet, or squirms in seat.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Often leaves seat in situations when remaining seated is expected.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Often runs about or climbs in situations where it is not appropriate (adolescents or adults may be limited to feeling restless).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Often unable to play or take part in leisure activities quietly.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Is often "on the go" acting as if "driven by a motor".
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Often talks excessively.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Often blurts out an answer before a question has been completed.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Often has trouble waiting their turn.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Often interrupts or intrudes on others (e.g., butts into conversations or games)

##### In addition, the following conditions must be met:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Several inattentive or hyperactive-impulsive symptoms were present before age 12 years.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Several symptoms are present in two or more settings, (such as at home, school or work; with friends or relatives; in other activities).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * There is clear evidence that the symptoms interfere with, or reduce the quality of, social, school, or work functioning.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The symptoms are not better explained by another mental disorder (such as a mood disorder, anxiety disorder, dissociative disorder, or a personality disorder). The symptoms do not happen only during the course of schizophrenia or another psychotic disorder.

##### Based on the types of symptoms, three kinds (presentations) of ADHD can
occur:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * _Combined Presentation_ : if enough symptoms of both criteria inattention and hyperactivity-impulsivity were present for the past 6 months
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * _Predominantly Inattentive Presentation_ : if enough symptoms of inattention, but not hyperactivity-impulsivity, were present for the past six months
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * _Predominantly Hyperactive-Impulsive Presentation_ : if enough symptoms of hyperactivity-impulsivity, but not inattention, were present for the past six months.

Because symptoms can change over time, the presentation may change over time
as well.

### Diagnosing  ADHD in Adults

ADHD often lasts into adulthood. To diagnose ADHD in adults and adolescents
age 17 years or older, only 5 symptoms are needed instead of the 6 needed for
younger children. Symptoms might look different at older ages. For example, in
adults, hyperactivity may appear as extreme restlessness or wearing others out
with their activity.

For more information about diagnosis and treatment throughout the lifespan,
please visit the websites of the National Resource Center on ADHDexternal icon
and the National Institutes of Mental Healthexternal icon.

###  Reference

American Psychiatric Association: Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental
Disorders, 5th edition. Arlington, VA., American Psychiatric Association,
2013.

Page last reviewed: November 1, 2019

Content source: National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities

home ADHD Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What is ADHD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Symptoms and Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parent Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Other Concerns and Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data and Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * ADHD Throughout the Years
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Diagnosis Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Treatment Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * State Informationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Behavioral Health Service Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Diagnosis and Medication Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Medication Treatment and Behavior Therapy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Medication and Psychological Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * PLAY Study
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * PLAY Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Focus for the Future Initiative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Articles and Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Behavior Therapy First for Young Children with ADHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Protecting the Health of Children with ADHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Is It ADHD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Materials and Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Parents Can Expect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Parents Learn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ADHD Treatments for Preschoolers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ADHD Treatments for Children and Teens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Links to Other Resources

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this topic, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

