

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Attention-Deficit / Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Treatment of ADHD

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Behavior Therapy, including Training for Parents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Medications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Parent Education and Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tips for Parents

### My Child Has Been Diagnosed with ADHD - Now What?

When a child is diagnosed with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder
(ADHD), parents often have concerns about which treatment is right for their
child. ADHD can be managed with the right treatment. There are many treatment
options, and what works best can depend on the individual child and family.
To find the best options, it is recommended that parents work closely with
others involved in their child's life--healthcare providers, therapists,
teachers, coaches, and other family members.

Types of treatment for ADHD include

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Behavior therapy, including training for parents; and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Medications.

##### Treatment recommendations for ADHD

For children with ADHD younger than 6 years of age, the American Academy of
Pediatrics (AAP) recommends parent training in behavior management as the
first line of treatment, before medication is tried. For children 6 years of
age and older, the recommendations include medication and behavior therapy
together -- parent training in behavior management for children up to age 12
and other types of behavior therapy and training for adolescents.  Schools can
be part of the treatment as well. AAP recommendations also include adding
behavioral classroom intervention and school supports.  Learn more about how
the school environment can be part of treatment _._

Good treatment plans will include close monitoring of whether and how much the
treatment helps the child's behavior, as well as making changes as needed
along the way. To learn more about AAP recommendations for the treatment of
children with ADHD, visit the Recommendations page _._

### Behavior Therapy, Including Training for Parents

ADHD affects not only a child's ability to pay attention or sit still at
school, it also affects relationships with family and other children.
Children with ADHD often show behaviors that can be very disruptive to others.
Behavior therapy is a treatment option that can help reduce these behaviors;
it is often helpful to start behavior therapy as soon as a diagnosis is made.

The goals of **behavior therapy** are to learn or strengthen positive
behaviors and eliminate unwanted or problem behaviors. Behavior therapy for
ADHD can include

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Parent training in behavior management; 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Behavior therapy with children; and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * _Behavioral interventions in the classroom external icon._

These approaches can also be used together. For children who attend early
childhood programs, it is usually most effective if parents and educators work
together to help the child.

##### Children younger than 6 years of age

For young children with ADHD, behavior therapy is an important first step
before trying medication because:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Parent training in behavior management gives parents the skills and strategies to help their child.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Parent training in behavior management has been shown to work as well as medication for ADHD in young children.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Young children have more side effects from ADHD medications than older children.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The long-term effects of ADHD medications on young children have not been well-studied.

Overview for parents

![Behavior Therapy Overview All Ages thumbnail](/ncbddd/adhd/images/adhd-
behavior-therapy-overview-all-ages.png)

Behavior Therapy for Younger and Older Children with ADHD pdf icon[PDF - 466
KB]

##### School-age children and adolescents

For children ages 6 years and older, AAP recommends combining medication
treatment with behavior therapy. Several types of behavior therapies are
effective, including:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Parent training in behavior management;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Behavioral interventions in the classroom;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Peer interventions that focus on behavior; and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Organizational skills training.

These approaches are often most effective if they are used together, depending
on the needs of the individual child and the family.

Learn more about behavior therapy

Learn more about ADHD treatment and support in school

Read about the evidence for effective therapies for ADHDexternal icon

 Top of Page

### Medications

Medication can help children manage their ADHD symptoms in their everyday life
and can help them control the behaviors that cause difficulties with family,
friends, and at school.

Several different types of medications are FDA-approved to treat ADHD in
children as young as 6 years of ageexternal icon:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Stimulants** are the best-known and most widely used ADHD medications. Between 70-80% of children with ADHD have fewer ADHD symptoms when taking these fast-acting medications.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Nonstimulants** were approved for the treatment of ADHD in 2003. They do not work as quickly as stimulants, but their effect can last up to 24 hours.

Medications can affect children differently and can have side effects such as
decreased appetite or sleep problems. One child may respond well to one
medication, but not to another.

Healthcare providers who prescribe medication may need to try different
medications and doses. The AAP recommends that healthcare providers observe
and adjust the dose of medication to find the right balance between benefits
and side effects. It is important for parents to work with their child's
healthcare providers to find the medication that works best for their child.

 Top of Page

### Parent Education and Support

CDC funds the National Resource Center on ADHD (NRC), a program of Children
and Adults with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (CHADD). The NRC
provides resources, information, and advice for parents on how to help their
child.  Learn more about the services of the NRCexternal icon _._

### Tips for Parents

The following are suggestions that may help with your child's behavior:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Create a routine.** Try to follow the same schedule every day, from wake-up time to bedtime.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Get organizedexternal icon **.** Encourage your child to put schoolbags, clothing, and toys in the same place every day so that they will be less likely to lose them.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Manage distractions.** Turn off the TV, limit noise, and provide a clean workspace when your child is doing homework. Some children with ADHD learn well if they are moving or listening to background music. Watch your child and see what works.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Limit choices.** To help your child not feel overwhelmed or overstimulated, offer choices with only a few options. For example, have them choose between this outfit or that one, this meal or that one, or this toy or that one.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Be clear and specific when you talk with your child.** Let your child know you are listening by describing what you heard them say. Use clear, brief directions when they need to do something.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Help your child plan.** Break down complicated tasks into simpler, shorter steps. For long tasks, starting early and taking breaks may help limit stress.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Use goals and praise or other rewards.** Use a chart to list goals and track positive behaviors, then let your child know they have done well by telling them or by rewarding their efforts in other ways. Be sure the goals are realistic--small steps are important!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Discipline effectively.** Instead of scolding, yelling, or spanking, use effective directions, time-outs or removal of privileges as consequences for inappropriate behavior.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Create positive opportunities.** Children with ADHD may find certain situations stressful. Finding out and encouraging what your child does well--whether it's school, sports, art, music, or play--can help create positive experiences.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Provide a healthy lifestyle.**Nutritious food, lots of physical activity, and sufficient sleep are important; they can help keep ADHD symptoms from getting worse.

 Top of Page

### ADHD in Adults

ADHD lasts into adulthood for at least one-third of children with ADHD1.
Treatments for adults can include medication, psychotherapy, education or
training, or a combination of treatments. For more information about diagnosis
and treatment throughout the lifespan, please visit the websites of the
National Resource Center on ADHDexternal icon and the National Institutes of
Mental Healthexternal icon

### More information

For more information on treatments, please click one of the following links:

National Resource Center on ADHDexternal icon

National Institute of Mental Healthexternal icon

Information for parents from the American Academy of Pediatricsexternal icon

### References:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. Barbaresi WJ, Colligan RC, Weaver AL, Voigt RG, Killian JM,  Katusic SK.  Mortality, ADHD, and psychosocial adversity in adults with childhood ADHD: A prospective study. _Pediatrics_ 2013;131(4):637-644.

##### What parents can expect in behavior therapy

![What parents can expect in behavior therapy
infographic](/ncbddd/adhd/images/adhd-behavior-therapy-parents-800px.png)

Close

##### What parents can expect in behavior therapy

Parents typically attend 8-16 sessions with a therapist and learn strategies
to help their child. Sessions may involve groups or individual families.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The therapist meets regularly with the family to monitor progress and provide support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Between sessions, parents practice using the skills they've learned from the therapist

After therapy ends families continue to experience improved behavior and
reduced stress.

Close

Page last reviewed: October 8, 2019

Content source: National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities

home ADHD Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What is ADHD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Symptoms and Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parent Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Other Concerns and Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data and Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * ADHD Throughout the Years
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Diagnosis Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Treatment Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * State Informationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Behavioral Health Service Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Diagnosis and Medication Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Medication Treatment and Behavior Therapy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Medication and Psychological Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * PLAY Study
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * PLAY Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Focus for the Future Initiative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Articles and Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Behavior Therapy First for Young Children with ADHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Protecting the Health of Children with ADHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Is It ADHD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Materials and Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Parents Can Expect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Parents Learn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ADHD Treatments for Preschoolers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ADHD Treatments for Children and Teens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Links to Other Resources

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this topic, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

