Link: https://medlineplus.gov/bodylice.html    
                                Description: Body lice are parasitic insects. They spread through physical contact with a person who has body lice or though contact with their clothing. They are most common in homeless people. Find out how to kn    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Body Lice

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/bodylice.html

#  Body Lice

## Summary

### What are body lice?

Body lice (also called clothes lice) are tiny insects which live and lay nits
(lice eggs) on clothing. They are parasites, and they need to feed on human
blood to survive. They usually only move to the skin to feed.

Body lice are one of the three types of lice that live on humans. The other
two types are head lice and pubic lice. Each type of lice is different, and
getting one type does not mean that you will get another type.

Body lice can spread diseases, such as typhus, trench fever, and relapsing
fever.

### How do body lice spread?

Body lice move by crawling, because they cannot hop or fly. One way that they
spread is through physical contact with a person who has body lice. They can
also spread through contact with clothing, beds, bed linens, or towels that
were used by a person with body lice. You cannot get lice from animals.

### Who is at risk for body lice?

Body lice is most common in people who cannot bathe and wash their clothes
regularly, especially if they live in crowded conditions. In the United
States, this is most often homeless people. In other countries, body lice can
also affect refugees and victims of war or natural disasters.

### What are the symptoms of body lice?

The most common symptom of body lice is intense itching. There may also be a
rash, which is caused by an allergic reaction to the bites. The itching causes
some people to scratch until they get sores. Sometimes these sores can become
infected with bacteria or fungi.

If someone has body lice for a long time, the heavily bitten areas of their
skin can become thickened and discolored. This is most common around your
midsection (waist, groin, and upper thighs).

### How do you know if you have body lice?

A diagnosis of body lice usually comes from finding nits and crawling lice in
the seams of clothing. Sometimes a body louse can be seen crawling or feeding
on the skin. Other times it takes a magnifying lens to see the lice or nits.

### What are the treatments for body lice?

The main treatment for body lice is to improve personal hygiene. That means
regular showers and washing clothes, bedding, and towels at least once a week.
Use hot water to wash the laundry, and dry it using the hot cycle of the
dryer. Some people may also need a lice-killing medicine.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Learn More

  * Body Lice (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Body Lice Diagnosis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Body Lice Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Body Lice Prevention and Control (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Body Lice Treatment (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Lice Infestations ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * \-- see more articles

## Patient Handouts

  * Body lice (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Lice](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Lice2.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Body lice

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Body Lice is the National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 30 November 2018 Topic last reviewed: 9 September 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

