

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Attention-Deficit / Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Focus for the Future

CDCâs initiative to support children with ADHD

Minus

Related Pages

![Focus For the Future. Paving a Path for Kids with
ADHD](/ncbddd/adhd/images/focus-for-the-future.png)

Parenting a child with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) can be
tough. Families face daily challenges and reliable information about ADHD can
help their children. **Focus for the Future** is a CDC initiative that
connects families with tools and resources to help kids with ADHD thrive. Our
team of scientists, mental health specialists, and medical experts are leading
the charge to identify, promote, and extend the reach of the best care for
kids with ADHD.

CDC is committed to working with partners and the public to support children
with ADHD and their families through the **Focus for the Future** initiative.
CDC is

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Working to understand ADHD:** CDC uses national and community data to identify the number of children with ADHD, the type of treatment that these children receive, and factors that increase the risk for or lower the chance of developing ADHD. Read about our research.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Raising awareness and sharing the latest findings:** CDC develops and provides resources for parents, educators, and health providers. Explore information for parents and health providers.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Connecting more families to evidence-based treatment:** CDC works to identify policies and practices that connect more families to treatments for ADHD that are based on the best available medical information. Learn about CDC's work to improve access to mental and behavioral health services for children and families.

CDC's National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (NCBDDD)
is committed to helping children with ADHD. Through research and by providing
information, NCBDDD helps families of these children get the support they
need. We study mental and developmental disorders, identify factors that put
children at risk for these conditions, and share that research with state and
local decision-makers and medical professionals.

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Children's Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Child Development
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Positive Parenting Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Injury, Violence, and Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Safe and Healthy Kids and Teens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * A-Z Index of Birth Defects, Blood Disorders & Disabilities

Page last reviewed: August 28, 2019

Content source: National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities

home ADHD Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What is ADHD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Symptoms and Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parent Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Other Concerns and Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data and Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * ADHD Throughout the Years
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Diagnosis Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Treatment Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * State Informationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Behavioral Health Service Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Diagnosis and Medication Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Medication Treatment and Behavior Therapy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Medication and Psychological Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * PLAY Study
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * PLAY Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Focus for the Future Initiative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Articles and Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Behavior Therapy First for Young Children with ADHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Protecting the Health of Children with ADHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Is It ADHD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Materials and Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Parents Can Expect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Parents Learn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ADHD Treatments for Preschoolers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ADHD Treatments for Children and Teens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Links to Other Resources

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this topic, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

