

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Attention-Deficit / Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# ADHD Treatment Recommendations

Minus

Related Pages

![Boy with his parents at doctor's appointment](/ncbddd/adhd/images/boy-
parents-pediatrician-office.jpg)

The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) published a clinical practice
guideline that provides recommendations for the diagnosis and treatment of
children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). This guideline
is based on the best available evidence, and is intended for use by primary
care providers, such as pediatricians, family physicians, and other healthcare
providers.

### Diagnosis and Evaluation of ADHD

The AAP guidelines for diagnosis and evaluation of ADHD recommend that primary
care providers complete these steps:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Evaluate children and adolescents ages 4 to 18 years for ADHD if they are having academic or behavioral problems and show inattention, hyperactivity, or impulsivity.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Get reports on the child's symptoms from parents or guardians, school staff, and mental health workers involved with their care, and get information from the child or adolescent as well.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Use rating scales and other sources to document the symptoms and ensure that DSM-5 criteria have been met.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Rule out any other possible conditions that can cause similar symptoms.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Screen for other conditions that might coexist with ADHD, including emotional or behavioral disorders (such as anxiety, depression, and behavior problems), developmental disorders (such as learning and language disorders or autism spectrum disorder), and physical conditions (such as tics, sleep disorders, or apnea).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Refer children to a specialist if they detect co-occurring conditions that they are not experienced in treating or diagnosing.

Read more about this recommendationexternal icon.

Did you know?

The behavior therapy with best evidence with young children with ADHD is
**Parent Training in Behavior Management**.



### Treatment

The AAP guidelines for treatment of ADHD recommend:

Children and adolescents with ADHD should be treated the same as would any
other child or adolescent with special healthcare needs, following the
principles of the chronic care model and the medical homeexternal icon.

##### Children ages 4-6 years

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The first line of treatment should include 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parent training in behavior management; and/or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Behavioral classroom interventions (if available).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Methylphenidate may be used if behavioral interventions do not provide significant improvement and the child continues to have serious problems.

##### Children and adolescents 6-18 years

Recommended treatment for children and adolescents includes

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FDA-approved medicationsexternal icon along with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Parent training in behavior management and/or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Behavioral classroom interventions.

Treatments often work best when used together.

For all children attending school, the school is a necessary part of any
treatment plan. These plans can include

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Educational interventions; and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Individual school supports, such as school environment and behavioral supports.

School treatment plans often include an Individualized Education Program (IEP)
or a 504 plan that describes accommodations.

##### Any child or adolescent who is taking medication

The AAP guidelines for treatment of ADHD recommend that

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The primary care provider adjusts the patient's medication dose as needed to achieve the most benefit with the least amount of tolerable side effects.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * For adolescents, medications should be used with patient approval.

Read more about this recommendationexternal icon.

Read more about the role of healthcare providers in assisting children with
special needsexternal icon.

### Reference

American Academy of Pediatrics, Subcommittee on Children and Adolescents with
Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder. ADHD: Clinical practice guideline
for the diagnosis, evaluation, and treatment of children and adolescents with
attention‐deficit/hyperactivity disorder. _Pediatrics_ , September 30th, 2019.

Page last reviewed: January 29, 2020

Content source: National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities

home ADHD Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What is ADHD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Symptoms and Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parent Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Other Concerns and Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data and Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * ADHD Throughout the Years
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Diagnosis Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Treatment Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * State Informationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Behavioral Health Service Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Diagnosis and Medication Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Medication Treatment and Behavior Therapy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Medication and Psychological Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * PLAY Study
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * PLAY Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Focus for the Future Initiative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Articles and Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Behavior Therapy First for Young Children with ADHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Protecting the Health of Children with ADHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Is It ADHD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Materials and Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Parents Can Expect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Parents Learn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ADHD Treatments for Preschoolers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ADHD Treatments for Children and Teens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Links to Other Resources

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this topic, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

