

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Attention-Deficit / Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Parent Training in Behavior Management for ADHD

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

![What parents can expect in behavior therapy
infographic](/ncbddd/adhd/images/adhd-behavior-therapy-parents-400px.png)

Please bookmark this to the **Finding the right therapy for your child**

View full-size | View text version

Behavior therapy is an effective treatment for attention-deficit/hyperactivity
disorder (ADHD) that can improve a child's behavior, self-control, and self-
esteem. It is most effective in young children when it is delivered by
parents. Experts recommend that healthcare providers refer parents of children
younger than 12 years old for training in behavior therapy. For children
younger than 6 years old, parent training in behavior management should be
tried before prescribing ADHD medicine.

When parents become trained in behavior therapy, they learn skills and
strategies to help their child with ADHD succeed at school, at home, and in
relationships. Learning and practicing behavior therapy requires time and
effort, but it has lasting benefits for the child and the family.

Did you know?

 **Parent training** in **behavior management** is also known as **parent
behavior therapy** , **behavioral parent training** , or just **parent
training**.

### What should parents look for?

If possible, families should look for a therapist who focuses on training
parents. Some therapists will have training or certification in a parent
training program that has been proven to work in young children with ADHD.

Therapists may also use strategies like those in proven programs1,2. The
following list of questions can be used to find a therapist who uses a proven
approach:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Does this therapist**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Teach parents skills and strategies that use positive reinforcement, structure, and consistent discipline to manage their child's behavior?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Teach parents positive ways to interact and communicate with their child?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Assign activities for parents to practice with their child?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Meet regularly with the family to monitor progress and provide coaching and support?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Re-evaluate treatment plans and remain flexible enough to adjust strategies as needed?

Learn more about finding a therapist »

### What can parents expect?

Parents typically attend eight or more sessions with a therapist. Sessions may
involve working with groups of parents or with one family alone. The therapist
meets regularly with the parents to review their progress, provide support,
and adjust strategies, as needed, to ensure improvement. Parents typically
practice with their child between sessions.

Parents have the greatest influence on their young child's behavior. **Only
therapy that focuses on training parents is recommended for young children
with ADHD because young children are not mature enough to change their own
behavior without their parents ' help**. Some therapists may use play therapy
or talk therapy to treat young children with ADHD. Play therapy provides a way
for children to communicate their experiences and feelings through play. Talk
therapy uses verbal communication between the child and a therapist to treat
mental and emotional disorders. Neither of these has been proven to improve
symptoms in young children with ADHD.

Learning and practicing behavior therapy requires time and effort, but it has
lasting benefits for the child. Ask your healthcare provider about the
benefits of parent training in behavior therapy for young children with ADHD.

### What can healthcare providers do?

**Healthcare providers can:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Follow the clinical practice guideline for diagnosis and treatment of ADHD in young childrenexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Discuss with parents the benefits of behavior therapy and why they should consider getting training.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Identify parent training providers in their area and refer parents of young children with ADHD for training in behavior therapy before prescribing medicine.

### For more information:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Vital Signs: ADHD in young children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Treatment patterns for young children with ADHD

##### For Parents and Providers:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Finding a therapist: A guide for parents pdf icon[PDF - 975 KB]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Behavior therapy for young children with ADHD: Overview for parents pdf icon[PDF - 330 KB]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Behavior therapy for children with ADHD: Overview for parents pdf icon[PDF - 795 KB]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Behavior therapy for young children with ADHD: What healthcare providers can do pdf icon[PDF - 749 KB]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * ADHD treatment options
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * National Resource Center on ADHDexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Webinar series for educators working with young children with ADHDexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * American Academy of Pediatrics clinical practice guideline for ADHDexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Webinar series on behavioral parent training for young children with ADHDexternal icon

##### For States:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * State profiles of treatment patterns for young children with ADHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Medicaid policy research

##### What parents can expect in behavior therapy

![What parents can expect in behavior therapy
infographic](/ncbddd/adhd/images/adhd-behavior-therapy-parents-800px.png)

Close

##### What parents can expect in behavior therapy

Parents typically attend 8-16 sessions with a therapist and learn strategies
to help their child. Sessions may involve groups or individual families.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The therapist meets regularly with the family to monitor progress and provide support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Between sessions, parents practice using the skills they've learned from the therapist

After therapy ends families continue to experience improved behavior and
reduced stress.

Close

##### What parents learn when trained in behavior therapy

![What parents learn... infographic](/ncbddd/adhd/images/adhd-what-parents-
learn-1200px.png)

Close

##### What parents learn when trained in behavior therapy

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Positive Communication
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Positive Reinforcement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Structure and Discipline
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Behavior therapy, given by parents teaches children to better control their own behavior, leading to improved functioning at school home and in relationships. Learning and practicing behavior therapy requires time and effort, but has lasting benefits for the child.

Close

Page last reviewed: September 30, 2019

Content source: National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities

home ADHD Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What is ADHD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Symptoms and Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parent Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Other Concerns and Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data and Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * ADHD Throughout the Years
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Diagnosis Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Treatment Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * State Informationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Behavioral Health Service Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Diagnosis and Medication Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Medication Treatment and Behavior Therapy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Medication and Psychological Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * PLAY Study
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * PLAY Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Focus for the Future Initiative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Articles and Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Behavior Therapy First for Young Children with ADHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Protecting the Health of Children with ADHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Is It ADHD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Materials and Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Parents Can Expect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Parents Learn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ADHD Treatments for Preschoolers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ADHD Treatments for Children and Teens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Links to Other Resources

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this topic, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

