

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Attention-Deficit / Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Research on ADHD

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Current Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Research Agenda

### Overview

Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a serious public health
problem affecting a large number of children and adults. CDC conducts research
to expand on what is known about ADHD. The information learned will improve
knowledge about the factors that increase the risk for ADHD, as well as the
causes, and best treatments, and will aid the development of resources to help
people living with ADHD _. Learn more about CDC 's research on ADHD on this
overview page._

ADHD can cause problems in how well children do in school, in their ability to
make and keep friends, and in how they function in society. Although there are
treatments to improve ADHD symptoms, more information is needed about managing
ADHD so that children can learn and grow into adulthood without being impaired
by their symptoms.

![Research on ADHD](/ncbddd/adhd/images/research-500px.jpg)

The criteria used to diagnose ADHD have changed over time. Researchers who
study ADHD have used different definitions to diagnose ADHD. This has led to
some disagreement about the number, characteristics, and outcomes of children
with the disorder. Although the exact causes of ADHD are not known, research
shows that genes play a role, but other factors may contribute or make
symptoms worse. There are many unanswered questions about ADHD, and there is
more we need to learn about how ADHD affects people throughout their life.

The treatment costs of ADHD and the personal and societal costs can be
significant. Researchers estimate that in the United States, $31.6 billion is
the combined annual cost for

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health care for persons with ADHD specifically related to the diagnosis;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health care for family members of persons with ADHD specifically related to their family member's diagnosis; and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Work absences among adults with ADHD and adult family members of persons with ADHD.1

Improving the health of individuals with ADHD could result in substantial
financial savings to families and society, potentially reducing this financial
burden.

### Current Research

#### National Surveys

CDC uses data from national surveys to understand the number of children with
ADHD, other concerns and conditions they might experience, and the kind of
treatment they might receive. Surveys that have data on children and on ADHD
include

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * National Survey of Children's Health 2016external icon,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * National Survey of Children's Health 2003-2012,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * National Survey of the Diagnosis and Treatment of ADHD and Tourette Syndrome (NS-DATA),
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * National Health Interview Survey,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * National Survey on Children with Special Health Care Needs

Read about key findings from the national surveys.

Learn more about the data from the national surveys.

#### Policy Research

![Fast Fact: A policy research study found that 27 states manage access to
ADHD medications for children. ](/ncbddd/adhd/images/research-policy-fast-
fact.jpg)

In order to fully appreciate how children with ADHD are treated, one must
understand the policies that affect how treatments are authorized and
reimbursed by health plans. One policy that may affect medication treatment is
for health plans or state programs to require pre-authorization before
specific medications can be prescribed. Prescription prior-authorization
policy means that the health plan or state program is required to review a
physician's prescription request before coverage for the medication is
granted.

Over the past decade, the number of children being prescribed ADHD medications
has increased substantially. In response to this trend, many state Medicaid
programs have implemented prior-authorization policies for pediatric use of
ADHD medications. These policies vary from state to state, and no
comprehensive information on these policies was previously available.

To learn more about prior-authorization policies related to pediatric use of
ADHD medications, CDC collaborated with Temple University to conduct a cross-
sectional mapping study. Information was gathered on state Medicaid prior-
authorization policies (as of November 2015) for prescribing ADHD medication
to children. The study team collected

##### New Research: Medicaid policies to manage the use of ADHD medications:
Information by state

Learn more

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Prior-authorization forms,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Memoranda from state Medicaid directors to prescribers,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Drug utilization review board meeting notes, and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * State prescription drug lists.

The study team developed a coding scheme to capture and catalogue the key
features of the prior-authorization policies. You can access a fact sheet with
a summary of the results of this mapping study pdf icon[PDF - 353 KB] and also
a database of state policies.

A list of readings and resources on ADHD treatment policy options pdf icon[PDF
- 361 KB, 9 Pages], including information on Medicaid drug prior authorization
and reimbursement for behavioral therapy, is available.

#### Healthcare Claims Data

CDC uses healthcare insurance claims data to understand treatment patterns for
children in clinical care for ADHD, such as claims for psychological services
and ADHD medication in patients covered by employer-sponsored insurance or by
Medicaid.

Read more about the data from healthcare claims datasets.

#### Community-based Research

CDC's National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (NCBDDD)
supported large community-based, epidemiologic studies of ADHD in the United
States. These studies

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Enhance what is known about ADHD and the co-occurring conditions in children and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Increase the opportunity to make the most informed decisions and recommendations about potential public health prevention and intervention strategies for children with ADHD.

![Project to Learn About ADHD in Youth
\(PLAY\)](/ncbddd/adhd/images/playlogo_1.jpg)

##### Project to Learn About ADHD in Youth (PLAY)

The Project to Learn About ADHD in Youth (PLAY) was a population-based
research project with the University of South Carolina and the University of
Oklahoma Health Sciences Center. It was conducted to shed more light on how
many school-age children have ADHD, how the condition develops over time, what
other conditions and risks children may experience, and about treatments they
may receive. Data were collected to learn more about ADHD in diverse
population groups, the quality and patterns of treatment, and the factors that
affect short- and long-term outcomes for children.

Learn more about the original PLAY study.

##### Project to Learn About Youth - Mental Health

![Project to Learn about Youth PLAY
logo](/ncbddd/adhd/images/PLAY_project.jpg)

The Project to Learn About Youth - Mental Health (PLAY-MH) expanded the focus
to study a range of mental, behavioral, or emotional disorders including ADHD
and tic disorders (such as Tourette syndrome) in four communities. The project
provides information that can be used for public health prevention and
intervention strategies to support children's health and development.

Study questions include

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What percentage of children in the community has one or more mental, behavioral, or emotional disorders?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How frequently do these disorders appear together?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What types of treatment are children receiving?

 Top of Page

### Understanding Risk

![Boys](/ncbddd/adhd/images/research1.jpg)

It is not known what causes ADHD. ADHD is often seen in families, and genes
appear to play a role, but other factors may contribute or make symptoms
worse. For example, some environmental exposures have been linked to increased
ADHD symptoms, but the evidence has been inconsistent. Knowing more about
those factors would help with planning how to decrease the risk for ADHD.
NCBDDD funded a comprehensive literature review of studies that investigate a
large range of factors that might increase the risk for ADHD. The results will
increase the ability of public health professionals to make the most informed
decisions and recommendations about potential public health prevention
strategies.

### Research Agenda

Public health issues in ADHD can be divided into three areas:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Understanding how many children have ADHD and whether they are properly diagnosed.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Understanding and addressing the impact of ADHD in the population.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Understanding which treatments are effective and which are best for children of different ages and in different communities.

Key public health questions yet to be answered include

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What are the causes, and the factors that increase the risk or severity of ADHD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How many children have ADHD? Is the rate increasing?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How many children have ADHD and other conditions at the same time?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What social and economic impacts does ADHD have on families, schools, the workforce, and the judicial and health systems?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Are ADHD and other co-occurring conditions being appropriately diagnosed and treated?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Are people with ADHD able to access appropriate and timely treatment?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * How effective are the treatments and what are their long-term effects?

 Top of Page

### Previous Workshop Summaries

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Epidemiologic Issues in ADHD Workshop (April 14, 1999)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Public Health Issues in ADHD: Individual, System, and Cost Burden of the Disorder (May, 17, 1999)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * ADHD Long-term Outcomes: Comorbidity, Secondary Conditions, and Health Risk Behaviors (June 9, 1999)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Public Health Issues in the Treatment of ADHD Workshop (June 15, 1999)

### References

Birnbaum HG, Kessler RC, Lowe SW, Secnik K, Greenberg PE, Leong SA, et al.
Costs of attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in the US: excess
costs of persons with ADHD and their family members in 2000. _Current medical
research and opinion 2005;21(2):195-206 external icon_.

Page last reviewed: August 28, 2019

Content source: National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities

home ADHD Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What is ADHD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Symptoms and Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parent Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Other Concerns and Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data and Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * ADHD Throughout the Years
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Diagnosis Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Treatment Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * State Informationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Behavioral Health Service Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Diagnosis and Medication Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Medication Treatment and Behavior Therapy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Medication and Psychological Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * PLAY Study
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * PLAY Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Focus for the Future Initiative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Articles and Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Behavior Therapy First for Young Children with ADHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Protecting the Health of Children with ADHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Is It ADHD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Materials and Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Parents Can Expect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Parents Learn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ADHD Treatments for Preschoolers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ADHD Treatments for Children and Teens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Links to Other Resources

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this topic, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

