

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Attention-Deficit / Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Project to Learn About ADHD in Youth (PLAY) - Real Story

Minus

Related Pages

### Real Stories from People living with an Attention Deficit Hyperactivity
Disorder

###  April's Story

_This is the personal story of April and her child Sara. From age 9 until age
15, Sara participated with her mother in the ADHD Play and follow-up studies._

"The PLAY interview process was an affirming experience for both me and my
daughter. I realized that ADHD encompasses so much more of a child's life than
his or her behavior. It impacts relationships, family dynamics, school
performance, parental practices, and most of all, a child's concept of self-
worth. I think the biggest struggle for children with ADHD is trying to
conform to traditional school settings, where sitting still, long-term focus,
organizational skills, etc. are rewarded behaviors.

Children's Mental Disorders: A Journey for Parents and Children

![Children's Mental
Disorders](/ncbddd/socialmedia/images/mental_disorders_200x125.jpg)

Meet two families and hear about their experiences living with Attention-
Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder and Tourette Syndrome.

Watch the video

"For each annual interview my daughter and I would always compare notes before
and after the interview. She was curious to see what I said about her in the
pre-interview paperwork, and I was curious to hear about her answers in the
face-to-face interview. It was always a great opportunity for us to talk about
things we didn't usually discuss on a regular basis, such as her self-
confidence, her growing independence, her school performance, her behavior,
and her relationships at home and school.

"Over time, I was able to trace her own self-confidence and sense of security
back to the structure of our home life, her physical fitness activities, her
love for the arts, her relationship with her parents (especially her dad), and
the loving adults who surrounded her. I think we affirmed that having a well-
rounded set of activities, a loving family unit, good routines and limits, and
healthy relationships at school are habits to keep for a lifetime. The
researchers' ability to trace data trends on all aspects of a child's life in
such a comprehensive way will hopefully help those affected by ADHD in the
future."

**_CDC would like to thank April for sharing her personal story._**

Page last reviewed: August 28, 2019

Content source: National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities

home ADHD Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What is ADHD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Symptoms and Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Parent Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Other Concerns and Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data and Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * ADHD Throughout the Years
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Diagnosis Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Treatment Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * State Informationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Behavioral Health Service Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Diagnosis and Medication Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Medication Treatment and Behavior Therapy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * State Profiles â Medication and Psychological Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * PLAY Study
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * PLAY Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Focus for the Future Initiative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Articles and Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Behavior Therapy First for Young Children with ADHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Protecting the Health of Children with ADHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Is It ADHD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Materials and Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Parents Can Expect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What Parents Learn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ADHD Treatments for Preschoolers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ADHD Treatments for Children and Teens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Links to Other Resources

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this topic, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

