Link: https://medlineplus.gov/reproductivehazards.html    
                                Description: Reproductive hazards can affect your reproductive health, fertility, and ability to have healthy children. Learn about the types and prevention.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Reproductive Hazards

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/reproductivehazards.html

#  Reproductive Hazards

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here

### Learn More

  * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

  * No links available

### Research

  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * No links available

### For You

  * No links available

## Summary

### What are reproductive hazards?

Reproductive hazards are substances that affect the reproductive health of men
or women. They also include substances that affect the ability of couples to
have healthy children. These substances may be chemical, physical, or
biological. Some common types include

  * Alcohol
  * Chemicals such as pesticides
  * Smoking
  * Legal and illegal drugs
  * Metals such as lead and mercury
  * Radiation
  * Some viruses

You may be exposed to reproductive hazards through contact with your skin,
breathing them in, or swallowing them. This can happen anywhere, but it is
more common in the workplace or at home.

### What are the health effects of reproductive hazards?

The possible health effects of reproductive hazards include infertility,
miscarriage, birth defects, and developmental disabilities in children. What
type of health effects they cause and how serious they are depends on many
factors, including

  * What the substance is
  * How much of it you are exposed to
  * How it enters your body
  * How long or how often you are exposed
  * How you react to the substance

### How can reproductive hazards affect men?

For a man, a reproductive hazard can affect the sperm. A hazard may cause a
problem with the number of sperm, their shape, or the way that they swim. It
could also damage the sperm's DNA. Then the sperm may not be able to fertilize
an egg. Or it could cause problems with the development of the fetus.

### How can reproductive hazards affect women?

For a woman, a reproductive hazard can disrupt the menstrual cycle. It can
cause hormone imbalance, which can raise the risk of diseases such as
osteoporosis, heart disease, and certain cancers. It can affect a woman's
ability to get pregnant.

A woman who is exposed during pregnancy can have different effects, depending
on when she was exposed. During the first 3 months of pregnancy, it might
cause a birth defect or a miscarriage. During the last 6 months of pregnancy,
it could slow the growth of the fetus, affect the development of its brain, or
cause preterm labor.

### How can reproductive hazards be avoided?

To try to avoid reproductive hazards,

  * Avoid alcohol and illegal drugs during pregnancy
  * If you smoke, try to quit. And if you are not a smoker, don't start
  * Take precautions if you are using household chemicals or pesticides
  * Use good hygiene, including handwashing
  * If there are hazards at your job, make sure to follow safe work practices and procedures

## Start Here

  * Pregnancy Precautions: FAQs on Pregnancy Hazards (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

  * Hair Treatments and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF Also in Spanish
  * Mercury and Pregnancy (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation)
  * Methylmercury and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) Also in Spanish
  * Paint and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF
  * Pesticides and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF Also in Spanish
  * Pregnancy and Radiation Exposure (Health Physics Society)
  * Radiation and Pregnancy (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation) Also in Spanish
  * X-Rays, Pregnancy and You (Food and Drug Administration)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Male Reproductive Hazards ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Maternal Exposure ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Paternal Exposure ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Pregnancy Hazards ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Post-traumatic stress disorder in obstetrics and gynaecology doctors.
  * Article: Work-related post-traumatic stress symptoms in obstetricians and gynaecologists: findings from INDIGO,...
  * Article: Comparison of median effective concentration of ropivacaine in multiparas or primiparas...
  * Reproductive Hazards -- see more articles
  * Male reproductive health -- see more articles

## Topic Image

![Reproductive
Hazards](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ReproductiveHazards.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## Related Health Topics

  * Birth Defects
  * Infections and Pregnancy
  * Infertility
  * Pregnancy
  * Pregnancy and Drug Use
  * Pregnancy and Medicines
  * Prenatal Care
  * Sexually Transmitted Diseases
  * Teen Sexual Health

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Reproductive Hazards is the
National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 29 April 2019 Topic last reviewed: 28 December 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

