

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Lymphocytic Choriomeningitis (LCM)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Lymphocytic Choriomeningitis (LCM)

Minus

Related Pages

Lymphocytic choriomeningitis, or LCM, is a rodent-borne viral infectious
disease caused by lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV), a member of the
family _Arenaviridae,_ that was initially isolated in 1933.

The primary host of LCMV is the common house mouse, _Mus musculus_. Infection
in house mouse populations may vary by geographic location, though it is
estimated that 5% of house mice throughout the United States carry LCMV and
are able to transmit virus for the duration of their lives without showing any
sign of illness. Other types of rodents, such as hamsters, are not the natural
reservoirs but can become infected with LCMV from wild mice at the breeder, in
the pet store, or home environment. Humans are more likely to contract LCMV
from house mice, but infections from pet rodents have also been reported.

LCMV infections have been reported in Europe, the Americas, Australia, and
Japan, and may occur wherever infected rodent hosts of the virus are found.
The disease has historically been underreported, often making it difficult to
determine incidence rates or estimates of prevalence by geographic region.
Several serologic studies conducted in urban areas have shown that the
prevalence of LCMV antibodies in human populations range from 2% to 5%.

Additionally, pregnancy-related infection has been associated with congenital
hydrocephalus, chorioretinitis, and mental retardation.

Transmission

LCMV infections can occur after exposure from an infected rodent...

Signs and Symptoms

LCMV is most commonly recognized as causing neurological disease...

Risk of Exposure

Individuals who come into contact with mice are potentially at risk for
infection...

Diagnosis

Laboratory diagnosis is usually made by detecting IgM and IgG...

Treatment

Treatment requires hospitalization and supportive therapy based on severity...

Prevention

LCMV infection can be prevented by avoiding contact with wild mice...

Resources

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Factsheet: Lymphocytic Choriomeningitis (LCM) Cdc-pdf[PDF - 3 pages]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * References

More

Page last reviewed: May 6, 2014

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of High-
Consequence Pathogens and Pathology (DHCPP), Viral Special Pathogens Branch
(VSPB)

home Lymphocytic Choriomeningitis (LCM)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Risk of Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Resources

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

