

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Lassa Fever

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Lassa Fever

French

Minus

Related Pages

Lassa fever is an animal-borne, or zoonotic, acute viral illness. It is
endemic in parts of West Africa including Sierra Leone, Liberia, Guinea and
Nigeria. Neighboring countries are also at risk, as the animal vector for
Lassa virus, the "multimammate rat" ( _Mastomys natalensis_ ) is distributed
throughout the region.

The illness was discovered in 1969 and is named after the town in Nigeria
where the first cases occurred.

An estimated 100,000 to 300,000 infections of Lassa fever occur annually, with
approximately 5,000 deaths. Surveillance for Lassa fever is not standardized;
therefore, these estimates are crude. In some areas of Sierra Leone and
Liberia, it is known that 10-16% of people admitted to hospitals annually have
Lassa fever, demonstrating the serious impact the disease has on the region.

![Photo of Lassa virus sample](/vhf/lassa/images/EM-picture.jpg)

Transmission

People are infected through contact with an infected rodent...

Signs and Symptoms

Symptoms of Lassa fever typically occur 1-3 weeks after exposure to the
virus...

Risk of Exposure

People at greatest risk are those who live in West Africa, an endemic region
for Lassa fever...

Diagnosis

Typically Lassa fever is diagnosed using enzyme-linked immunosorbent serologic
assays (ELISA)...

Treatment

Ribavirin has been used with success in Lassa fever patients...

Prevention

Lassa fever is prevented by avoiding contact with _Mastomys_ rodents...

![Lassa Fever distribution map.  Countries reporting endemic disease and
substantial outbreaks are Guinea, Sierre Leone, Liberia, and Nigeria.
Countries reporting few cases, periodic isolation of virus, or serologic
evidence of Lassa virus infection are Mali, Burkina Faso, Cote d'Ivoire,
Ghana, Togo, and Benin.](/vhf/lassa/images/lassa-distribution-map.jpg)

Outbreak Distribution Map

Resources

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What you need to know about Lassa Fever Cdc-pdf[PDF - 2 pages]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Factsheet: Lassa Fever Cdc-pdf[PDF - 3 pages]

Training Videos for Lassa Fever--Earn Continuing Education Credit

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Epidemiology and Clinical Presentation of Lassa Fever: Information for Medical Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Diagnosing and Treating Lassa Fever: Information for Medical Providers

Page last reviewed: January 31, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of High-
Consequence Pathogens and Pathology (DHCPP), Viral Special Pathogens Branch
(VSPB)

home Lassa Fever

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Risk of Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Outbreak Distribution Map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Resources expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Training: The Epidemiology and Clinical Presentation of Lassa Fever: Information for Medical Providers expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CE Credit Pre-test
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Training: Diagnosing and Treating Lassa Fever: Information for Medical Providers expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CE Credit Pre-test
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers: U.S. Cases

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

