

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

ï»¿

Relapsing Fever

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Louse-borne Relapsing Fever (LBRF)

Minus

Related Pages

![Soldiers in World War I search for lice.](/relapsing-
fever/images/WWIlice.jpg)

Soldiers in World War I search for lice. (Image from the Library of
Medicine/History of Medicine collection.)

LBRF is caused by a spiral-shaped bacteria, _Borrelia recurrentis_ , which is
transmitted from human to human by the body louse. LBRF outbreaks most
commonly occur in conditions of overcrowding and social disruption.

LBRF epidemics occurred frequently in Europe during the early 20th Century.
Between 1919 and 1923, 13 million cases resulting in 5 million deaths occurred
in the social upheaval that overtook Russia and eastern Europe. During World
War II, a million cases occurred in North Africa.

Today, LBRF causes sporadic illness and outbreaks in sub-Saharan Africa,
particularly in regions affected by war and in refugee camps. LBRF is commonly
found in Ethiopia, Sudan, Eritrea, and Somalia. Illness can be severe, with
mortality of 30 to 70% in outbreaks.

## References

Ciervo A, Mancini F, di Berenardo F, Giammanco A, Vitale G, Dones P, et al.
Louse-borne relapsing fever in young migrants, Sicily, Italy, July−September
2015. _Emerg Infect Dis_. 2016 Jan;22(1).

Cutler, S.J., Abdissa, A. and Trape, J.-F. (2009) New concepts for the old
challenges of African relapsing fever borreliosis. _Clin Microbiol Infect_ 15,
400-406.

Hayes, E. B. and D. T. Dennis (2004). "Relapsing Fever." In Harrison's
Principles of Internal Medicine, 16th edition. Eds D. L. Kasper, E. Braunwald,
A. S. Fauci, S. L. Hauser, D. L. Longo, and J. L. Jameson. p.991-995.

Hoch M, Wieser A, Loscher T, Margos G, Purner F, Zuhl J, et al. Louse-borne
relapsing fever (Borrelia recurrentis) diagnosed in 15 refugees from northeast
Africa: epidemiology and preventive control measures, Bavaria, Germany, July
to October 2015external icon. _Euro Surveill_. 2015 Oct 22;20(42).

Rahlenbeck, S.I. and A. Gebre-Yohannes (1995). Louse-borne relapsing fever and
its treatment. _Tropical & Geographical Medicine_ 47(2):49-52.

Raoult D, Roux V. (1999) The body louse as a vector of reemerging human
diseases. _Clin Infect Dis_. Oct;29(4):888-911.

Page last reviewed: October 15, 2015

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic
Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic
Infectious Diseases (NCEZID) Division of Vector-Borne Diseases (DVBD) Division
of Vector-Borne Diseases (DVBD)

ï»¿

home Tick-borne Relapsing Fever Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Distribution
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Clinicians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Louse-borne Relapsing Fever
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * _Borrelia miyamotoi_ Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Additional Resources

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

