

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate

### Health Infrastructure Breakdown in Venezuela

Warning - Level 3, Avoid Nonessential Travel

Alert - Level 2, Practice Enhanced Precautions

Watch - Level 1, Practice Usual Precautions

### Key Points

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * **CDC recommends that travelers avoid all nonessential travel to Venezuela.**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The country is experiencing outbreaks of infectious diseases, and adequate health care is currently not available in most of the country.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * If you must travel to Venezuela, then protect yourself by following CDC's recommendations (below).

### What is the current situation?

There has been a breakdown of the medical infrastructure in Venezuela. There
are shortages of food, water, electricity, medicine, and medical supplies that
have contributed to an increasing humanitarian crisis affecting much of the
country. Adequate health care is currently not available through the public
health system in Venezuela. For this reason, in addition to crime and civil
unrest, the US government has limited ability to provide emergency services to
US citizens. Please visit the Department of State Travel Advisory for
Venezuela for more information.

Infectious diseases are on the rise, and several large outbreaks are
occurring:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * During the past year, over 1,000 confirmed cases of measles, including more 50 deaths, have been reported in 9 states.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * In the past 2 years, over 1,600 suspected cases of diphtheria, including over 140 deaths, have been reported in 22 states.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * In 2017, over 400,000 cases of malaria were reported.

### What can travelers do to protect themselves?

**CDC recommends that US residents avoid all nonessential travel to**
**Venezuela** **.**  
If you must travel to Venezuela, then protect yourself by following the health
advice of CDC (below) and reviewing the Department of State country
information page for Venezuela.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * **Make an appointment**  with a travel medicine specialist or your healthcare provider to get needed vaccines and medicines at least 4 to 6 weeks before you leave. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC recommends all travelers be up to date on all recommended vaccines, such as the Diphtheria, Tetanus, and Pertussis (DTaP) vaccine and Measles-Mumps-Rubella (MMR) vaccine.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC recommends all travelers take prescribed medicine to prevent malaria.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * **Pack atravel health kit** with your prescription medicines and over-the-counter medicines (enough to last your whole trip, plus a little extra), first aid supplies, and your health insurance card. Authorized humanitarian aid workers may need to pack additional items.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * **Monitor the Department of State 's Travel Advisory and Alerts for Venezuela.**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * US citizens should enroll online in the Smart Traveler Enrollment Program (STEP) to receive security updates and information about assistance in an emergency.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * **Prepare for the unexpected.**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Leave copies of your itinerary, contact information, credit cards, and passport with someone at home, in case they are lost during travel.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Buy travel health and medical evacuation insurance. If you are injured or get sick during your trip, medical care is likely to be unavailable in Venezuela.

### Traveler Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Information for Travelers to Venezuela

This notice was originally posted May 15, 2018.



* * *

Page last reviewed: January 03, 2020

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Noticesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Health Infrastructure Breakdown in Venezuela
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

