

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Syndicate

### Ebola in Democratic Republic of the Congo

Warning - Level 3, Avoid Nonessential Travel

Alert - Level 2, Practice Enhanced Precautions

Watch - Level 1, Practice Usual Precautions

### Key Points

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * There is an outbreak of Ebola in the South Kivu (Kivu Sud), North Kivu (Kivu Nord), and Ituri provinces in the northeastern part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travelers to this area could be infected with Ebola if they come into contact with an infected person's blood or other body fluids.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travelers should seek medical care **immediately** if they develop fever, muscle pain, sore throat, diarrhea, weakness, vomiting, stomach pain, or unexplained bleeding or bruising during or after travel.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC has provided recommendations to ensure workers with potential occupational exposure to Ebola are healthy when they return to the United States.

#### On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * What is Ebola?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * What is the current situation?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Who is at risk?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * What can travelers do to protect themselves and others from Ebola?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * What can travelers expect when leaving DRC?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Special recommendations for heath care and response workers in the outbreak area

### What is the current situation?

An outbreak of Ebola is occurring in the South Kivu (Kivu Sud), North Kivu
(Kivu Nord), and Ituri provinces of the DRC (see map of Ebola-affected health
zones in the DRC). The DRC Ministry of Health declared this current outbreak
on August 1, 2018. For the latest information on this outbreak, including
updates on numbers of cases and deaths, see the World Health Organization's
(WHO) Ebola situation reports: Democratic Republic of the Congo.

What is Ebola?

Ebola virus disease (also known as Ebola hemorrhagic fever) is a rare and
deadly disease that periodically causes outbreaks in several African
countries. It is spread by contact with blood or body fluids of a person
infected with Ebola virus. It is also spread by contact with contaminated
objects or infected animals.

Symptoms include fever, headache, muscle pain, weakness, diarrhea, vomiting,
stomach pain, and unexplained bleeding or bruising.

The affected provinces are among the most populated in DRC. These provinces
share borders with other countries (Burundi, Rwanda, South Sudan, Tanzania,
and Uganda) with frequent cross-border movement for personal travel and trade.
The provinces have been experiencing a prolonged humanitarian crisis and
deteriorating security, which are limiting public health efforts to respond to
this outbreak. The US Department of State has identified this part of the
country as a "do not travel" zone because of crime, Ebola, and kidnapping.

The DRC Ministry of Health, WHO, and partners are responding to this outbreak
and working to enhance illness surveillance and reporting, monitor contacts,
conduct cross-border surveillance in neighboring countries, expand laboratory
capacity, and vaccinate front-line health workers and contacts of people with
Ebola.

### Who is at risk?

The risk of Ebola infection for most travelers to DRC is low. Only those going
to the outbreak area or who otherwise have contact with a person with Ebola
are at risk. Travelers could become infected if they come into contact with
blood or body fluids from an infected person. Family and friends caring for
people with Ebola and health care workers who do not use correct infection
control precautions are at higher risk.

Although the risk for Ebola is low for most travelers to DRC, the risk of
exposure to other diseases, including measles, yellow fever, cholera, malaria,
and chikungunya, remains high. Before you leave for DRC, see a travel medicine
provider:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Make sure you are protected fully against measles.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Get yellow fever vaccine.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Because of ongoing active cholera transmission in South Kivu, North Kivu, Haut-Katanga, Tanganyika, Haut-Lomami, and Kasai Oriental, CDC recommends travelers going to these provinces get the cholera vaccine.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Start taking medicine to prevent malaria.

During your time in the DRC:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Keep taking medicine to prevent malaria.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Avoid bug bites.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Follow food and water precautions.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Take other steps to stay healthy and safe.
After returning:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Finish taking medicine to prevent malaria.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Seek medical care if you felt ill during travel or after you got home, and tell the doctor where you traveled.

### What can travelers do to protect themselves and others from Ebola?

There is no US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved or widely available
vaccine or specific treatment for Ebola, and many people who get the disease
die. Therefore, it is important to take steps to prevent Ebola.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * **Take  action to prevent Ebola infection.**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Avoid contact with other people's blood or body fluids. (See the section below for special precautions if your work puts you at risk for exposure to Ebola.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Do not handle items that may have come in contact with a person's blood or body fluids (such as clothes, bedding, needles, or medical equipment).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Avoid contact with bats and nonhuman primates or blood, fluids, and raw meat prepared from these animals (bushmeat) or meat from an unknown source.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Do not participate in funeral or burial rituals that require handling human remains.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Wash your hands often or use hand sanitizer, and avoid touching your eyes, nose, or mouth.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * **Considertravel health and medical evacuation insurance coverage.**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * If you are traveling for work, have information about your employer's plan for medical care or evacuation during your trip.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * **Register with the US Department of State.** If you are a US citizen, enroll online in the Smart Traveler Enrollment Program (STEP) to receive security updates and information about getting help in the event of an emergency.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * **For travelers tothe outbreak area, pay attention to your health during travel _and_ for 21 days after you leave the outbreak area.**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * **Separate yourself from others and seek medical care immediately** if you have been in an area where Ebola is spreading and develop fever or other symptoms of Ebola. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **Before you go to a doctor 's office, urgent care center, or emergency room, call ahead and tell** **the doctor about your recent travel and your symptoms**. Advance notice will help the doctor care for you and protect other people who may be in the office or hospital.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * If you need help getting health care overseas, contact the nearest US embassy.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **If you are in DRC for work and become ill, contact your employer or sponsoring organization.**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Do not travel until cleared by health officials.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * **If you think you have been exposed to Ebola:**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Contact the nearest US embassy (for US citizens overseas) or local health officials immediately. If you are in DRC for work, also contact your employer or sponsoring organization.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Do not travel until cleared by health officials.

For more information, see WHO recommendations for international travelers
related to the Ebola virus disease outbreak in the DRC.

### What should travelers be aware of when leaving the outbreak area in DRC?

Travelers who may have been exposed to Ebola or who become sick during or
after travel should postpone further travel and get immediate medical
attention. Any person with possible exposure or Ebola-like symptoms will not
be allowed to travel unless the travel is part of a coordinated medical
evacuation.

Travelers leaving the outbreak area may be subject to travel restrictions or
monitoring by ministries of health in other countries and should check in
advance for any requirements

### Special recommendations for health care workers and Ebola response workers
in the outbreak area

If your work puts you at risk of exposure to Ebola (such as general health
care in a hospital, Ebola treatment unit work, burial work, or laboratory work
in the outbreak area), you should:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Wear protective clothing, including masks, gloves, gowns, and eye protection whenever you are at risk of exposure to Ebola virus.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Practice proper infection control (more information).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Discuss options for vaccination against Ebola with your employer or sponsoring organization. DRC's Ministry of Health, WHO, and other partners are offering an investigational vaccine to priority populations such as frontline workers in Ebola response activities. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * If you choose to be vaccinated against Ebola, get the vaccine before travel, if possible.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The National Institutes of Health (NIH) has an open-label clinical trial, entitled "Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis in Individuals at Potential Occupational Risk for Ebola Virus Exposure" or "PREPARE," to vaccinate adult volunteers (including deploying health care workers and other responders) against Ebola. Study sites are at the NIH in Bethesda, MD, and Emory University in Atlanta, GA.

Upon returning to the United States, notify your health care facility's
infection control or occupational health professional of your recent travel
and self-monitoring activities (if you will be caring for patients in a US
health care facility during your 21-day self-monitoring period).

CDC has published special recommendations for organizations sending workers to
the outbreak area.

### Traveler Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Health Information for Travelers to DRC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC Ebola website
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC Ebola Factsheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * WHO Ebola in Democratic Republic of the Congo updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * WHO recommendations for travelers

### Clinician Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Health Information for Travelers to DRC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Viral Hemorrhagic Fevers in  _CDC Health Information for International Travel  _ ("Yellow Book")

This notice was originally posted August 8, 2018.



* * *

Page last reviewed: January 03, 2020

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travel Noticesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ebola in Democratic Republic of the Congo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

