

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

### Yellow Fever in Nigeria

Warning - Level 3, Avoid Nonessential Travel

Alert - Level 2, Practice Enhanced Precautions

Watch - Level 1, Practice Usual Precautions

### Key Points

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * A large, ongoing outbreak of yellow fever in Nigeria began in September 2017. The outbreak is now spread throughout the country. The Nigerian Ministry of Health has reported cases of the disease in all 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travelers going to Nigeria should receive vaccination against yellow fever at least 10 days before travel and should take steps to prevent mosquito bites while there.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **Those never vaccinated against yellow fever should avoid travel to Nigeria during the outbreak.**

What is yellow fever?

Yellow fever is caused by a virus. The virus is spread to people by mosquito
bites. Symptoms of yellow fever include fever, chills, headache, backache, and
muscle aches. Symptoms take 3-6 days to develop after infection. About 15% of
people who get yellow fever develop serious illness including bleeding, shock,
organ failure, and sometimes death.

### What is the current situation?

The Nigeria Centers for Disease Control has reported an ongoing outbreak of
yellow fever beginning in September 2017. Since then, the outbreak has
expanded throughout the country. For current information, see the Nigeria
Centre for Disease Control.

In response to this outbreak, Nigerian health authorities have conducted
several mass vaccination campaigns.

### What can you do to prevent yellow fever?

#### Get yellow fever vaccine

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Yellow fever vaccine is the best protection against yellow fever disease, which can be fatal. Anyone 9 months or older who travels to Nigeria should be vaccinated against yellow fever at least 10 days before travel.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * For most travelers, one dose of yellow fever vaccine provides long-lasting protection. However, because of the current outbreak, Nigeria is considered a higher risk. For this reason, if you were vaccinated against yellow fever 10 or more years ago, talk to your doctor about getting a booster dose of vaccine before your travel.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **Yellow fever vaccine is currently available at only a limited number of clinics in the United States. Contact yellow fever vaccine providers well in advance of travel.** Click here to search for a yellow fever vaccine provider near you.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Talk with a health care provider if you have questions about the yellow fever vaccine. Yellow fever vaccine is not recommended for some people.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **If you have not been vaccinated against yellow fever (regardless of the reason), do not travel to Nigeria during this outbreak**.

#### Prevent mosquito bites

Because mosquitoes spread yellow fever (and other diseases), prevent mosquito
bites during travel to Nigeria by using insect repellent, wearing long-sleeved
shirts and pants when outdoors, and sleeping in an air-conditioned or well-
screened room or under an insecticide-treated bed net.

### If you get sick during or after travel

Talk to a doctor or nurse if you get sick, especially if you have a fever.
Tell them you have been in a country with yellow fever.

### Additional Information:  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC Yellow Fever website
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FAQs about Yellow Fever
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Yellow Fever vaccine

### Clinician Information:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Yellow Fever in CDC Health Information for International Travel ("Yellow Book")
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Yellow Fever Vaccine Information for Healthcare Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Yellow Fever Vaccine: Recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (MMWR 2010)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Yellow Fever Vaccine Booster Doses: Recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, 2015

This notice was originally posted January 30, 2018.



* * *

Page last reviewed: January 03, 2020

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travel Noticesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Yellow Fever in Nigeria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

