

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

### Lassa Fever in Nigeria

Warning - Level 3, Avoid Nonessential Travel

Alert - Level 2, Practice Enhanced Precautions

Watch - Level 1, Practice Usual Precautions

Alert_01

Watch - Level 1, Practice Usual Precautions

### Key Points

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nigerian health officials have declared an outbreak of Lassa fever in Nigeria.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Lassa fever is a disease that is spread primarily by rats.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers to Nigeria should avoid contact with rats, especially rat urine and feces, and keep their accommodations or campsites clean.

What is Lassa fever?

Lassa fever is a viral illness that occurs in West Africa. It is spread
through contact with infected rodents or their droppings, or through close
contact with a person who is sick with Lassa fever. It usually causes mild
symptoms, including slight fever, weakness, and headache. However, in some
people it can cause more serious symptoms, like bleeding in the gums, eyes, or
nose; difficulty breathing; repeated vomiting; facial swelling; pain in the
chest, back, and abdomen; shock; and even death.

### What is the current situation?

The Nigeria Center for Disease Control has declared an outbreak of Lassa fever
in Nigeria due to an increase in the number of cases reported across the
country since the beginning of the year. Cases have been identified in several
states. Most cases have been found in Edo and Ondo states.

### How is Lassa fever virus spread?

Lassa fever is spread primarily by rats. Rats that carry the Lassa fever virus
live in homes and areas where food is stored. People usually become ill with
Lassa fever after accidentally eating or breathing in rat droppings or urine.
This can happen through touching objects or eating food contaminated with rat
droppings or urine, or after cleaning activities like sweeping. People who
prepare or eat infected rats for food can also become ill with Lassa fever.
Lassa fever may also spread when a person comes into contact with an infected
person's blood, tissue, or body fluids, especially when that person is
seriously ill.

### What can travelers do to prevent Lassa fever?

Travelers to Nigeria should avoid contact with rats, especially rat urine and
feces, and take precautions to keep their accommodations clean and free of
rodents. . If you need to clean up after rodents, take the proper steps to
avoid getting sick. Travelers should also wash hands often, and avoid contact
with people who are sick.

Travelers who develop fever or other serious symptoms of Lassa fever during or
after their trip should see a doctor right away. They should tell the doctor
where they traveled in Nigeria and whether they had contact with a rodent or
sick person.

### Traveler Information  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Lassa fever fact sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC Lassa fever website

### Clinician Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Viral Hemorrhagic Fevers in  _CDC Health Information for International Travel_  ("Yellow Book")

This notice was originally posted February 5, 2019.



* * *

Page last reviewed: January 03, 2020

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Noticesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Lassa Fever in Nigeria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

