

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

### Monkeypox in the Democratic Republic of the Congo

Warning - Level 3, Avoid Nonessential Travel

Alert - Level 2, Practice Enhanced Precautions

Watch - Level 1, Practice Usual Precautions

### Key points

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * There is an ongoing outbreak of monkeypox in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Infected animals such as rodents and primates can spread the virus to people (or other animals) when they bite or scratch. A person can also become infected by touching infected animals or from touching products that come from infected animals, including meat.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * People infected with monkeypox can spread the virus to others through the air when they cough, sneeze, or talk. The body fluids and skin sores of a person infected with monkeypox are also infectious.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travelers to the DRC can protect themselves from monkeypox by washing their hands often with soap and water and avoiding contact with wild animals and products made from wild animals. Travelers should also avoid contact with people who are sick.

What is monkeypox?

Monkeypox is a rare disease caused by a virus. Monkeypox occurs throughout
remote parts of Central and West Africa, often near tropical rain forests.
People become infected with the monkeypox virus through contact with infected
animals or humans (alive or dead) or with materials contaminated with the
virus. Fever, headache, muscle aches, swollen lymph nodes, and exhaustion are
followed by a rash. Patients are usually ill for 2-4 weeks. Monkeypox is fatal
in as many as 10% of people who get it.

### What is the current situation?

Monkeypox is an ongoing risk in the DRC; currently there is an outbreak of
monkeypox there.

### What can travelers do to protect themselves?

If you are going to an area with monkeypox, you can protect yourself against
infection by

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Washing hands often with soap and water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Not touching your eyes, nose, or mouth. Making sure your hands are clean if you do.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Avoiding contact with 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * People who are sick
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Materials (such as bedding) that have been in contact with a sick person or an animal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Wild animals (alive or dead) and any products that come from those animals, including meat

If you feel sick and think you may have monkeypox

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Stay home. Except for seeking medical care, avoid contact with others.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Seek medical care right away. Before you go to a doctor's office or emergency room, call ahead and tell the doctor about your recent travel and your symptoms. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or your sleeve (not your hands) when coughing or sneezing.

### Clinician Information

When a patient presents to a health care facility with fever and vesicular or
pustular rash, a combination of standard, contact, and airborne infection
control precautions should be applied. If an airborne infection isolation room
is not available, place the patient in a private room with the door closed. If
you suspect monkeypox in a patient with an appropriate travel history, notify
infection control personnel and your local health department immediately.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Monkeypox Information for Clinicians 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Monkeypox Information for Veterinarians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC Yellow Book (Health Information for International Travel): Smallpox & Other Orthopoxvirus-Associated Infections

This notice was originally posted January 2, 2020.



* * *

Page last reviewed: January 03, 2020

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel Noticesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Monkeypox in the Democratic Republic of the Congo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

