

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Syndicate

### COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel

Warning - Level 3, Avoid Nonessential Travel

Alert - Level 2, Practice Enhanced Precautions

Watch - Level 1, Practice Usual Precautions

Alert_06

Warning - Level 3, Avoid Nonessential Travel

#### Warning - Level 3, Avoid Nonessential Travel--Widespread Ongoing
Transmission

#### Key Points

  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * **CDC recommends that travelers defer  all cruise travel worldwide. **
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Widespread ongoing spread of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) has been reported in some countries. Other countries have reported sustained community spread.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cruise passengers are at increased risk of person-to-person spread of infectious diseases, including COVID-19, and outbreaks of COVID-19 have been reported on several cruise ships.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cruise travelers should stay home for 14 days after returning from travel, monitor their health, and practice social distancing. See Travelers Returning from Cruise Ship and River Cruise Voyages.

#### What is the current situation?

CDC typically posts travel health notices for countries and other
international destinations, not conveyances, such as ships, airplanes, or
trains. Because of the unprecedented nature of the novel coronavirus pandemic,
and the increased risk of transmission of COVID-19 on cruise ships, the US
government is advising US travelers to defer all cruise travel.

Recent reports of COVID-19 on cruises highlight the risk of infections to
cruise passengers and crew. Like many other viruses, COVID-19 appears to
spread more easily between people in close quarters aboard ships and boats. As
the COVID-19 pandemic continues, there remains a risk of infected passengers
and crew on board cruise ships.

Older adults and people of any age with serious chronic medical conditions
such as heart disease, chronic lung disease, and diabetes, are at a higher
risk of serious disease if infected with the novel coronavirus.

In addition, the U.S. Department of State advises travelers to not go on
cruises. This is a dynamic situation and those traveling by ship may be
impacted by travel restrictions affecting their itineraries or ability to
disembark or may be subject to quarantine procedures implemented by the local
authorities. While the U.S. government has successfully evacuated hundreds of
our citizens in the previous weeks, repatriation flights should not be relied
upon as an option for US citizens under the potential risk of quarantine by
local authorities. U.S. citizens should evaluate the risks associated with
choosing to remain in an area that may be subject to quarantine and take the
appropriate proactive measures. Passengers who plan to travel by cruise ship
should contact their cruise line companies directly for further information on
the current rules and restrictions and continue to monitor the
travel.state.gov website for updated information.

#### What can travelers do to protect themselves and others?

**CDC recommends that travelers defer cruise travel worldwide.** For most
travelers, cruise ship travel is voluntary and should be rescheduled for a
future date. If you do go on a cruise during the COVID-19 pandemic:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Do not board a cruise if you are sick.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Avoid contact with sick people.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Discuss cruise ship travel with your healthcare provider. Older adults and people of any age with serious chronic medical conditions are at increased risk for severe disease if infected with the novel coronavirus.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Avoid touching your eyes, nose, or mouth with unwashed hands.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. If soap and water are not readily available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * It is especially important to clean hands after going to the bathroom; before eating; and after coughing, sneezing or blowing your nose.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * If you get sick with fever or new or worsening cough or trouble breathing during your cruise, stay in your cabin and notify the onboard medical center immediately

If you were on a cruise in the past 14 days:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Stay home for 14 days from the time you disembark, practice social distancing, and monitor your health. Social distancing means staying out of crowded places, avoiding group gatherings, and maintaining distance (approximately 6 feet or 2 meters) from others when possible. See Travelers Returning from Cruise Ship and River Cruise Voyages.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * What to do if you are sick after travel.

#### For additional information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * About Coronavirus Disease 2010 (COVID-19)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Novel Coronavirus Information for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Information for Healthcare Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * U.S. Department of State Cruise Ship Passengers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Information for Cruise Ship Passengers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Information about Managing COVID-19 on Cruise Ships



This notice was originally posted March 17, 2020.





* * *

Page last reviewed: March 17, 2020

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travel Noticesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

