

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

### Meningococcal Disease in Benin

Warning - Level 3, Avoid Nonessential Travel

Alert - Level 2, Practice Enhanced Precautions

Watch - Level 1, Practice Usual Precautions

### Key Points

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * There is an outbreak of meningococcal disease in northwest Benin.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * All travelers should be vaccinated with the A, C, W, Y meningococcal vaccine before departure.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers should avoid close contact with anyone who is ill.

### What is the current situation?

An outbreak of meningococcal disease has been reported in Banikora District in
northwest Benin, on the border with Burkina Faso. Meningococcal disease refers
to any illness caused by bacteria called _Neisseria meningitidis_. These
illnesses are often severe and can be deadly. They include infections of the
lining of the brain and spinal cord (meningitis) and bloodstream
infections.The bacteria that cause meningococcal disease spread through
respiratory secretions such as saliva.

Most cases of meningococcal disease in this outbreak have been caused by
_Neisseria meningitidis_ serogroup C. An oubreak of meningococcal disease due
to serogroup C is not unexpected in Benin at this time of the year. There is a
vaccine available to travelers that can help prevent infection against
meningococcal disease caused by _Neisseria meningitidis_ serogroup C.

Health officials are reporting that a smaller number of cases in this outbreak
have been caused by _Neisseria meningitidis_ serogroup X. There is no vaccine
that prevents infection against meningococcal disease caused by _Neisseria
meningitidis_ serogroup X.

### What can travelers do to protect themselves?

Before departure, all travelers to Benin aged 2 months or older should be
vaccinated against _Neisseria meningitidis_ serogroups A, C, W, and Y. Two
meningococcal vaccines are available in the United States that protect against
infection from serogroups A, C, W, and Y. Children younger than 2 years of age
are recommended to receive 2-4 doses of serogroup A, C, W, Y vaccine before
traveling, depending on age. For adults and children 2 years of age and older,
just a single dose is needed. Approximately 7-10 days are required after
vaccination for the development of protective antibody levels.

Since 2005, most adolescents in the United States receive vaccination against
serogroups A, C, W, and Y. Protection from the serogroup A, C, W, Y vaccine
only lasts for a few years, however, so people who were vaccinated more than
3-5 years ago (depending on age) are recommended to receive an additional dose
before traveling.

Vaccination against _Neisseria meningitidis_ serogroup B (also available in
the United States) is not indicated for this outbreak. There is no vaccine for
serogroup X.

Close contacts of a person with meningococcal disease should receive
antibiotics to keep them from getting sick. Close contacts include people in
the same household, roommates, or anyone with direct contact with a patient's
saliva (such as a boyfriend or girlfriend).

### Additional resources

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Meningococcal Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Meningococcal Disease in CDC Health Information for International Travelers (the "Yellow Book")



* * *

Page last reviewed: January 28, 2020

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Noticesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Meningococcal Disease in Benin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

