

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate

### Extensively Drug-Resistant Typhoid Fever in Pakistan

Warning - Level 3, Avoid Nonessential Travel

Alert - Level 2, Practice Enhanced Precautions

Watch - Level 1, Practice Usual Precautions

Alert_01

Watch - Level 1, Practice Usual Precautions

### Key Points

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * There is an ongoing outbreak of extensively drug-resistant (XDR) typhoid fever in Pakistan. Extensively drug-resistant infections do not respond to most antibiotics.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * XDR typhoid infections in people with a history of travel to Pakistan have been reported in North America (United States and Canada), Europe (United Kingdom and Denmark), and Australia.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * All travelers to Pakistan are at risk of getting XDR typhoid fever. Those visiting friends or relatives are at a greater risk than tourists or business travelers.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * If you are going to South Asia, including Pakistan, protect yourself against typhoid infection by getting a typhoid fever vaccination _,_ and take extra care to follow safe food and water guidelines.

What is typhoid fever?

Typhoid fever, a serious disease caused by the bacterium  _Salmonella_  Typhi,
spreads by contaminated food and water. Symptoms of typhoid fever often
include high fever, weakness, stomach pain, headache, cough, and loss of
appetite. People may have diarrhea or constipation. In rare cases, typhoid
fever can be fatal. Treatment with antibiotics is essential. Vaccination helps
protect people from getting typhoid fever.

### What is the current situation?

Health officials in Pakistan have reported an ongoing outbreak of extensively
drug-resistant (XDR) typhoid fever that began in Hyderabad in November 2016.
The strain of  _Salmonella  _Typhi does not respond to most antibiotics used
to treat typhoid fever. The outbreak has spread to provinces throughout the
country, and several deaths have been reported. XDR typhoid associated with
travel to Pakistan has been reported in the United States, Canada, the United
Kingdom, Denmark, and Australia.

Public health authorities in Pakistan are identifying possible typhoid fever
cases, starting typhoid vaccination campaigns in the most affected areas, and
spreading educational messages about proper handwashing and safe food and
water practices.

In the United States, public health officials have increased efforts to
quickly interview and test samples from patients with suspected typhoid fever.

### What can travelers do to prevent typhoid fever?

#### Get the typhoid vaccine

The CDC recommends that all travelers (even short-term travelers) to South
Asia, including Pakistan, be vaccinated against typhoid fever before travel.
Two typhoid fever vaccines are available in the United States--an oral vaccine
and an injectable vaccine. Travelers should take one or the other. The oral
vaccine, approved for people 6 years old or older, should be taken as
directed, at least 1 week before departure. The injectable vaccine is approved
for people 2 years old or older; travelers should receive the injectable
vaccine at least 2 weeks before departure. Neither vaccine is 100% effective,
so travelers should also practice safe eating and drinking.

#### Practice safe eating and drinking habits

Because the bacteria that cause typhoid fever are spread through contaminated
food and water, you can reduce your risk of infection in several ways:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Follow safe food and water guidelines.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Wash your hands often, especially before eating.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Avoid eating food prepared by anyone who is sick or has recently been sick.

### If you get sick during or after travel

If you travel abroad and get sick while traveling, seek medical care. If you
get sick after returning to the United States, seek medical care and tell your
health care provider where and when you traveled. Do not prepare food for
other people. Learn more about typhoid fever, how to prevent it, and what to
do if you think you have it at CDC's typhoid fever page for travelers.

### Information for Health Care Professionals

The XDR strain of  _Salmonella_  Typhi is resistant to most antibiotics
(ampicillin, chloramphenicol, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, ciprofloxacin,
and ceftriaxone) used to treat typhoid fever. Health care providers should:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Obtain a complete travel history (asking about travel to South Asia, including Pakistan) from patients with suspected typhoid fever.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Collect stool and blood cultures from patients with suspected typhoid fever and request antimicrobial susceptibility testing on isolates.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Be aware that the Pakistan outbreak strain remains susceptible to azithromycin and carbapenems: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Azithromycin is effective for uncomplicated (diarrhea or bacteremia without secondary complications) typhoid fever and should be used to treat patients with suspected uncomplicated typhoid fever who have traveled to Pakistan. When culture and sensitivity results are available, adjust treatment accordingly. Adult azithromycin dosage is usually 1,000 mg orally once, then 500 mg orally daily; OR 1,000 mg orally once daily for at least 5 days. Pediatric azithromycin dose is 20 mg/kg orally once, then 10-20 mg/kg orally once per day (maximum 1,000 mg per day) for at least 5-7 days.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Carbapenems should be used for patients with suspected severe or complicated typhoid fever who have traveled to Pakistan. Severe or complicated typhoid fever could include for example, gastrointestinal complications (such as typhoid-related intestinal perforation, peritonitis, intestinal hemorrhage, hepatitis), neurologic complications (such as typhoid encephalopathy, including altered consciousness, delirium, confusion), or bacteremia with sepsis or shock. When culture and sensitivity results are available, adjust treatment accordingly. Consider getting an infectious diseases consultation for these patients.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Be aware that relapses can occur, often 1-3 weeks after clinical improvement.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Be aware that most (90%)  _Salmonella_  Typhi isolates from patients coming from South Asia have decreased susceptibility or resistance to fluoroquinolones, including ciprofloxacin; therefore, fluoroquinolones should not be used as empiric treatment for suspected typhoid fever in patients who have traveled to this area.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Report all cases of confirmed typhoid fever to the appropriate local or state health departments. Clinical laboratories should also submit all _Salmonella_  Typhi isolates to their state or local public health laboratory for submission to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

### Traveler Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC typhoid website
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Vaccine Information Statement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Food and Water Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Visiting Friends or Relatives in a Foreign Country

### Clinician Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Typhoid & Paratyphoid Fever in  _CDC Health Information for International Travel  _("Yellow Book")
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Information for Healthcare Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Typhoid vaccine recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (MMWR 2015)

This notice was originally posted September 30, 2019.



* * *

Page last reviewed: January 03, 2020

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Noticesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * XDR Typhoid Fever in Pakistan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

