

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Congenital Heart Defects (CHDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Facts about dextro-Transposition of the Great Arteries (d-TGA)

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

Dextro-Transposition (pronounced DECKS-tro trans-poh-ZI-shun) of the Great
Arteries or d-TGA is a birth defect of the heart in which the two main
arteries carrying blood out of the heart - the main pulmonary artery and the
aorta - are switched in position, or "transposed."

![Transposition of the Great
Arteries](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/transposition-sm.jpg)

Click here to view a larger image

![Normal Heart](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/normal-heart-sm.jpg)

Click here to view a larger image

### What is dextro-Transposition of the Great Arteries (d-TGA)?

Dextro-Transposition of the Great Arteries or d-TGA is a birth defect of the
heart in which the two main arteries carrying blood out of the heart - the
main pulmonary artery and the aorta - are switched in position, or
"transposed." Because a baby with this defect may need surgery or other
procedures soon after birth, d-TGA is considered a critical congenital heart
defect (CCHD). Congenital means present at birth.

In transposition of the great arteries, the aorta is in front of the pulmonary
artery and is either primarily to the right (dextro) or to the left (levo) of
the pulmonary artery. Levo-TGA is rarer than dextro-TGA. Dextro-TGA is often
simply called "TGA." However, "TGA" is a broader term that includes both
dextro-TGA (d-TGA) and levo-TGA (l-TGA), or congenitally corrected TGA, which
is not discussed here.

In a baby without a congenital heart defect, the right side of the heart pumps
oxygen-poor blood from the heart to the lungs through the pulmonary artery.
The left side of the heart pumps oxygen-rich blood to the rest of the body
through the aorta. The aorta is usually behind the pulmonary artery.

In babies with d-TGA, oxygen-poor blood from the body enters the right side of
the heart. But, instead of going to the lungs, the blood is pumped directly
back out to the rest of the body through the aorta. Oxygen-rich blood from the
lungs entering the heart is pumped straight back to the lungs through the main
pulmonary artery.

Often, babies with d-TGA have other heart defects, such as a hole between the
lower chambers of the heart (a ventricular septal defect) or the upper
chambers of the heart (an atrial septal defect) that allow blood to mix so
that some oxygen-rich blood can be pumped to the rest of the body. The _patent
ductus arteriosus_ also allows some oxygen-rich blood to be pumped to the rest
of the body.

Learn more about how the heart works »

### Occurrence

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimates that about
1,153 babies are born with TGA each year in the United States.1 This means
that every 1 in 3,413 babies born in the US is affected by this defect.

### Causes and Risk Factors

The causes of congenital heart defects, such as d-TGA, among most babies are
unknown. Some babies have congenital heart defects because of changes in their
_genes_ or _chromosomes_. Heart defects are also thought to be caused by the
combination of genes and other risk factors such as things the mother comes in
contact with in her environment, or what the mother eats or drinks, or certain
medications she uses.

Read more about CDC's work on causes and risk factors »

### Diagnosis

This defect may be diagnosed during pregnancy or soon after the baby is born.

##### During Pregnancy

During pregnancy, there are screening tests that the mother can have (also
called prenatal tests) to check for birth defects and other conditions. D-TGA
may be diagnosed during pregnancy with an ultrasound test (which creates
pictures of the baby). Some findings from the ultrasound may make the health
care provider suspect a baby could have d-TGA. If so, the health care provider
can request a fetal _echocardiogram_ to confirm the diagnosis. A fetal
echocardiogram is a more detailed ultrasound of the baby's heart. This test
can show problems with the structure of the heart and how the heart is working
with this defect.

##### After the Baby is Born

Symptoms occur at birth or very soon afterwards. How severe the symptoms are
will depend on whether there is a way for blood to mix and for oxygen-rich
blood to get out to the rest of the body. For example, if an infant with d-TGA
has another defect, like an atrial septal defect (ASD), the ASD forms a
passageway for some oxygen-rich blood to be pumped to the rest of the body.
This infant with both d-TGA and an ASD may not have as severe symptoms as
infants whose hearts don't have any mixing of blood. Infants with d-TGA can
have a bluish looking skin color--called cyanosis _­ ­--_because their blood
doesn't carry enough oxygen. Infants with d-TGA or other conditions causing
cyanosis can have symptoms such as:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Problems breathing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pounding heart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Weak pulse
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ashen or bluish skin color
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Poor feeding

Because the infant might be bluish in color and have trouble breathing, d-TGA
is usually diagnosed within the first week of life. The health care provider
can request one or more tests to confirm the diagnosis. The most common test
is an echocardiogram. An echocardiogram is an ultrasound of the heart that can
show problems with the structure of the heart, like incorrect positioning of
the two large arteries, and any irregular blood flow. An electrocardiogram
(EKG), which measures the electrical activity of the heart, chest x-rays, and
other medical tests may also be used to make the diagnosis.

D-TGA can also be detected with newborn pulse oximetry screening. Pulse
oximetry is a simple bedside test to determine the amount of oxygen in a
baby's blood. Low levels of oxygen in the blood can be a sign of a CCHD.
Newborn screening using pulse oximetry can identify some infants with a CCHD,
like d-TGA, before they show any symptoms.

### Treatments

Surgery is required for all babies born with d-TGA. Other procedures may be
done before surgery in order to maintain, enlarge or create openings that will
allow oxygen-rich blood to get out to the body.

There are two types of surgery to repair d-TGA:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Arterial Switch Operation** : This is the most common procedure and it is usually done in the first month of life. It restores usual blood flow through the heart and out to the rest of the body. During this surgery, the arteries are switched to their usual positions--the pulmonary artery arising from the right ventricle and the aorta from the left ventricle. The coronary arteries (small arteries that provide blood to the heart muscle) also must be moved and reattached to the aorta.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Atrial Switch Operation:** This procedure is less commonly performed. During this surgery, the arteries are left in place, but a tunnel (baffle) is created between the top chambers (atria) of the heart. This tunnel allows oxygen-poor blood to move from the right atrium to the left ventricle and out the pulmonary artery to the lungs. Returning oxygen-rich blood moves through the tunnel from the left atrium to the right ventricle and out the aorta to the body. Although this repair helps blood to go to the lungs and then out to the body, it also makes extra work for the right ventricle to pump blood to the entire body. Therefore, this repair can lead to difficulties later in life.

After surgery, medications may be needed to help the heart pump better,
control blood pressure, help get rid of extra fluid in the body, and slow down
the heart if it is beating too fast. If the heart is beating too slowly, a
pacemaker can be used.

Infants who have these surgeries are not cured; they may have lifelong
complications. A child or adult with d-TGA will need regular follow-up visits
with a cardiologist (a heart doctor) to monitor their progress and avoid
complications or other health problems. With proper treatment, most babies
with d-TGA grow up to lead healthy, productive lives.

### Reference

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. Mai CT, Isenburg JL, Canfield MA, et al. for the National Birth Defects Prevention Network. National population-based estimates for major birth defects, 2010-2014. Birth Defects Res 2019; 1- 16\. https://doi.org/10.1002/bdr2.1589.

##### dextro-Transposition of the Great Arteries (d-TGA)

![dextro-Transposition of the Great Arteries
\(d-TGA\)](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/d-tga-575px.jpg)

The images are in the public domain and thus free of any copyright
restrictions. As a matter of courtesy we request that the content provider
(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center on Birth Defects
and Developmental Disabilities) be credited and notified in any public or
private usage of this image.

Close

##### Normal Heart

![Normal Heart](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/normal-heart-550px.jpg)

The images are in the public domain and thus free of any copyright
restrictions. As a matter of courtesy we request that the content provider
(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center on Birth Defects
and Developmental Disabilities) be credited and notified in any public or
private usage of this image.

Close

Page last reviewed: November 12, 2019

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Congenital Heart Defects Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What are CHDsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How the Heart Works
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Critical Congenital Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Screening
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Current Research Activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Information for Healthcare Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Specific Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Atrial Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Atrioventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Coarctation of the Aorta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * D-Transposition of the Great Arteries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pulmonary Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tetralogy of Fallot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Return
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tricuspid Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Truncus Arteriosus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Living with a CHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tracking & Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Living with a Heart Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Free Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tracking and Research Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CHD Tracking and Research Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 10 Years of Improving Understanding of CHDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Multimedia and Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * A Heart-To-Heart Chat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Real Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Links to Other Resources

Information For…

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policy Makers



**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

