

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Congenital Heart Defects (CHDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Facts about Tetralogy of Fallot

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

![Picture of Tetralogy of Fallot](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/tetralogy-
web_small.jpg)

Click here to view a larger image

![Picture Tetralogy of
Fallot](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/Teralogy_web_small.jpg)

Click here to view a larger image

Tetralogy of Fallot (pronounced te-tral-uh-jee of Fal-oh) is a birth defect
that affects normal blood flow through the heart. It happens when a baby's
heart does not form correctly as the baby grows and develops in the mother's
womb during pregnancy.

### What is Tetralogy of Fallot?

Tetralogy of Fallot is made up of the following four defects of the heart and
its blood vessels:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. A hole in the wall between the two lower chambers―or ventricles―of the heart. This condition also is called a ventricular septal defect.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2. A narrowing of the pulmonary valve and _main pulmonary artery_. This condition also is called pulmonary stenosis.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3. The aortic valve, which opens to the aorta, is enlarged and seems to open from both ventricles, rather than from the left ventricle only, as in a normal heart. In this defect, the aortic valve sits directly on top of the ventricular septal defect.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4. The muscular wall of the lower right chamber of the heart (right ventricle) is thicker than normal. This also is called ventricular hypertrophy.

Because a baby with tetralogy of Fallot may need surgery or other procedures
soon after birth, this birth defect is considered a critical congenital heart
defect. Congenital means present at birth.

This heart defect can cause oxygen in the blood that flows to the rest of the
body to be reduced. Infants with tetralogy of Fallot can have a bluish-looking
skin color―called cyanosis―because their blood doesn't carry enough oxygen. At
birth, infants might not have blue-looking skin, but later might develop
sudden episodes of bluish skin during crying or feeding. These episodes are
called tet spells.

Infants with tetralogy of Fallot or other conditions causing cyanosis can have
problems including:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * A higher risk of getting an infection of the layers of the heart, called endocarditis.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * A higher risk of having irregular heart rhythms, called arrhythmia.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Dizziness, fainting, or seizures, because of the low oxygen levels in their blood.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Delayed growth and development.

Learn more about how the heart works »

### Occurrence

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimates that each year
about 1,660 babies in the United States are born with tetralogy of Fallot.1 In
other words, about 1 in every 2518 babies born in the United States each year
are born with tetratology of Fallot.

Asha's Story

![Asha](/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/images/Asha-150px.jpg)

Asha was born with tetralogy of Fallot. Read her story as well as other
stories from families affected by tetralogy of Fallot »



### Causes and Risk Factors

The causes of heart defects (such as tetralogy of Fallot) among most babies
are unknown. Some babies have heart defects because of changes in their
_genes_ or _chromosomes_. Heart defects such as tetralogy of Fallot also are
thought to be caused by a combination of genes and other risk factors, such as
the things the mother or fetus come in contact with in the environment or what
the mother eats or drinks or the medicines she uses.

Read more about CDC's work on causes and risk factors »

### Diagnosis

Tetralogy of Fallot may be diagnosed during pregnancy or soon after a baby is
born.

##### During Pregnancy

During pregnancy, there are screening tests (also called prenatal tests) to
check for birth defects and other conditions. Tetralogy of Fallot might be
seen during an ultrasound (which creates pictures of the body). Some findings
from the ultrasound may make the health care provider suspect a baby may have
tetralogy of Fallot. If so, the health care provider can request a fetal
_echocardiogram_ to confirm the diagnosis. A fetal echocardiogram is an
ultrasound of the heart of the fetus. This test can show problems with the
structure of the heart and how the heart is working with this defect.

##### After a Baby Is Born

Tetralogy of Fallot usually is diagnosed after a baby is born, often after the
infant has an episode of turning blue during crying or feeding (a tet spell).
Some findings on a physical exam may make the health care provider think a
baby may have tetralogy of Fallot, including bluish-looking skin or a heart
murmur (a "whooshing" sound caused by blood not flowing properly through the
heart). However, it is not uncommon for a heart murmur to be absent right at
birth.

The health care provider can request one or more tests to confirm the
diagnosis. The most common test is an _echocardiogram_. An echocardiogram is
an ultrasound of the heart that can show problems with the structure of the
heart and how the heart is working (or not) with this defect. Echocardiography
also is useful for helping the doctor follow the child's health over time.

Tetralogy of Fallot is a critical congenital heart defect (critical CHD) that
may be detected with newborn screening using pulse oximetry (also known as
pulse ox). Pulse oximetry is a simple bedside test to estimate the amount of
oxygen in a baby's blood. Low levels of oxygen in the blood can be a sign of a
critical CHD. Newborn screening using pulse oximetry can identify some infants
with a critical CHD, like tetralogy of Fallot, before they show any symptoms.

### Treatments

Tetralogy of Fallot can be treated by surgery soon after the baby is born.
During surgery, doctors widen or replace the pulmonary valve and enlarge the
passage to the pulmonary artery. They also will place a patch over the
ventricular septal defect to close the hole between the two lower chambers of
the heart. These actions will improve blood flow to the lungs and the rest of
the body.

Most infants will live active, healthy lives after surgery. However, they will
need regular follow-up visits with a cardiologist (a heart doctor) to monitor
their progress and check for other health conditions that might develop as
they get older. As adults, they may need more surgery or medical care for
other possible problems.

Learn more about living with a CHD »

### References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. Parker SE, Mai CT, Canfield MA, et al; for the National Birth Defects Prevention Network. Updated national birth prevalence estimates for selected birth defects in the United States, 2004-2006. Birth Defects Res A Clin Mol Teratol. 2010;88:1008-16.

##### Tetralogy of Fallot

![Truncus arteriosus](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/Teralogy_web.jpg)

The images are in the public domain and thus free of any copyright
restrictions. As a matter of courtesy we request that the content provider
(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center on Birth Defects
and Developmental Disabilities) be credited and notified in any public or
private usage of this image.

Close

##### Tetralogy of Fallot

![Truncus arteriosus](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/tof.jpg)

The images are in the public domain and thus free of any copyright
restrictions. As a matter of courtesy we request that the content provider
(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center on Birth Defects
and Developmental Disabilities) be credited and notified in any public or
private usage of this image.

Close

Page last reviewed: November 12, 2019

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Congenital Heart Defects Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What are CHDsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How the Heart Works
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Critical Congenital Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Screening
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Current Research Activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Information for Healthcare Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Specific Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Atrial Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Atrioventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Coarctation of the Aorta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * D-Transposition of the Great Arteries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pulmonary Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tetralogy of Fallot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Return
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tricuspid Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Truncus Arteriosus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Living with a CHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tracking & Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Living with a Heart Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Free Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tracking and Research Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CHD Tracking and Research Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 10 Years of Improving Understanding of CHDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Multimedia and Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * A Heart-To-Heart Chat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Real Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Links to Other Resources

Information For…

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policy Makers



**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

