

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Birth Defects

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Bryton and Fenixâs StoryâWritten by their mom, Janalyn

Minus

Related Pages

![Bryton and Fenix with their mom,
Janalyn](/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/images/FenixBryton-500px.jpg)

**Janalyn shares her family 's story of both of her sons: Fenix who was born
with ****Down syndrome** **, and Bryton who was born with birth defects of his
eyes.   Although Janalyn's family has faced many challenges, they have faced
each challenge head on, not willing to give up or be knocked down.  Read their
inspiring story:**

I am a proud mother of four beautiful children: two boys and two girls. Both
of my sons were born with birth defects. Fenix, the older of the two boys, has
Down syndrome.

Things were rough when we first found out. My husband and I had little to no
experience with Down syndrome. He was hospitalized multiple times as a baby
because of respiratory illnesses. He is a very energetic child who loves
sports and music. He loves life. His future is very bright.

My youngest child, Bryton, was born with anophthalmia (missing eye) on his
left side and micropthalmia (small eye) on his right side. Because of this, he
is completely blind. Once again, our family was in a state of disbelief. Once
the shock wore off and we were able to get Bryton the medical care and help he
needed to succeed, we were able to come together as a family once again.
Bryton gives the greatest hugs and is always happy. We still have some
challenges. His speech is delayed and he is just learning to walk. His laugh
could brighten anyone's day. We face many challenges as a family, but we face
each challenge head on, not willing to give up or be knocked down. All my
children deserve the best that life can give and that is what I am here for--
to ensure that their lives are grand.

Page last reviewed: December 5, 2019

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Birth Defects Homepage

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What are Birth Defects?plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventing Birth Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 5 Ways to Lower the Risk of Neural Tube Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Specific Birth Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Anophthalmia / Microphthalmia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Anotia / Microtia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cleft Lip / Cleft Palate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Congenital Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Atrial Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Atrioventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Coarctation of the Aorta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * D-Transposition of the Great Arteries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pulmonary Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tetralogy of Fallot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Return
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tricuspid Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Truncus Arteriosus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Craniosynostosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diaphragmatic Hernia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Down Syndromeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Growth Charts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Esophageal Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gastroschisis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hypospadias
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Microcephaly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Neural tube defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Anencephaly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Encephalocele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Spina Bifida
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Omphalocele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Upper and Lower Limb Reduction Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research & Trackingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MACDP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State-based Trackingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Arizona
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Colorado
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Florida
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Illinois
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Kentucky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Michigan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Minnesota
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * New Jersey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Oklahoma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Oregon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Puerto Rico
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Rhode Island
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Texas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Utah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CBDRPplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * NBDPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * BD-STEPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Research Tools and Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Down Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthy Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Folic Acid and Birth Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pregnant? Donât Smoke!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * World Birth Defects Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Materials & Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Coloring Pages
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Folic Acid and You
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevent to Protect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Make a PACT for Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Birth Defects are Common, Costly, and Critical
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos & Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Buttonsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Best for You. Best for Baby.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevent to Protect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * PACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Quiz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * BD Prevention Monthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Real Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cleft Lip and Palate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clubfoot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Craniosynostosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Down Syndromeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Meganâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Calebâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Bryton and Fenixâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Keatonâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Markâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Eye Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fetal Alcohol Syndrome Disorders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gastroschisis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Coarctation of the Aorta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hypoplastic left heart syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tetralogy of Fallot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Other types of heart defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Omphalocele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Spina Bifidaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Randi, Karen, & Robert
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Nikiaâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Dailyâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Eliâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Elleyâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Katieâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zacharyâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Bethâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Henryâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Reneeâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Clarkâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Anifaâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Share Your Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Information for Healthcare Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Information for Familiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Finding Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Health Care Providerâs Role
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Links to Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDCâs Work

![Zika and Pregnancy Button](/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/button-zika-
preg-180px.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

