

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Birth Defects

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Taking Ondansetron During Pregnancy Does Not Appear to Increase Risk For
Birth Defects

Minus

Related Pages

![Woman sitting on bed feeling sick, while man
sleeps](/ncbddd/birthdefects/features/images/sick-women-sitting-on-
bed-700px.jpg)

A study from the Slone Epidemiology Center at Boston University, in
collaboration with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC),
**found that taking ondansetron during early pregnancy did not appear to**
**increase the chance of having a baby with abirth defect.** Ondansetron
(Zofran®) is a medicine used to treat nausea and vomiting that may be caused
by surgery, chemotherapy, or radiation therapy. Healthcare professionals also
prescribe ondansetron during pregnancy to reduce symptoms of nausea and
vomiting, also known as "morning sickness."

Read the full scientific articleexternal icon.

### Main Findings

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * In this study: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About 7 in 10 mothers reported "morning sickness" during the first three months of pregnancy.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Use of ondansetron by pregnant women increased from about 1 in 100 before 2000 to about 1 in 10 by 2011.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * For most of the birth defects studied, researchers found that taking ondansetron during early pregnancy did not appear to increase the chance of having a baby with a birth defect.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Women should discuss options for managing nausea and vomiting symptoms during pregnancy with their healthcare providers.

### About This Study

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Researchers used data from the _Slone Epidemiology Center Birth Defects Study external icon_ and the National Birth Defects Prevention Study, which collect information on pregnancies affected by birth defects and babies born without birth defects in order to study what might cause or prevent birth defects.

### About Birth Defects

Birth defects are common, costly, and critical conditions that affect 1 in
every 33 babies born in the United States. Birth defects are structural
changes present at birth that can affect almost any part or parts of the body
(such as the heart, brain, face, arms, and legs). They may affect how the body
looks, works, or both.

![Treating for Two: Safer Medication Use in
Pregnancy](/pregnancy/meds/treatingfortwo/images/treating-for-two-
logo-500px.jpg)

### Our Work

CDC's National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (NCBDDD)
is working to improve the health of women and babies through its Treating for
Two: Safer Medication Use in Pregnancy initiative. Treating for Two works to
understand trends in medicine use among pregnant women and women of
reproductive age, and provide women and healthcare providers with information
about the safety or risk of using specific medicines during pregnancy. This
information will allow women and their doctors to make informed treatment
decisions about health conditions during pregnancy.

To learn more about our work in this area, visit the Treating for Two website.

### More Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facts About Birth Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MotherToBabyexternal icon

### Key Findings Reference

Parker SE, Van Bennekom C, Anderka M, & Mitchell AA. Ondansetron for Treatment
of Nausea and Vomiting during Pregnancy and the Risk of Birth Defects.
Obstetrics & Gynecology. 2018; 132 (2): 385-394.

Page last reviewed: November 1, 2018

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Birth Defects Homepage

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What are Birth Defects?plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventing Birth Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 5 Ways to Lower the Risk of Neural Tube Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Specific Birth Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Anophthalmia / Microphthalmia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Anotia / Microtia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cleft Lip / Cleft Palate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Congenital Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Atrial Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Atrioventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Coarctation of the Aorta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * D-Transposition of the Great Arteries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pulmonary Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tetralogy of Fallot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Return
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tricuspid Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Truncus Arteriosus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Craniosynostosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diaphragmatic Hernia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Down Syndromeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Growth Charts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Esophageal Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gastroschisis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hypospadias
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Microcephaly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Neural tube defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Anencephaly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Encephalocele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Spina Bifida
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Omphalocele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Upper and Lower Limb Reduction Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research & Trackingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MACDP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State-based Trackingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Arizona
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Colorado
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Florida
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Illinois
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Kentucky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Michigan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Minnesota
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * New Jersey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Oklahoma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Oregon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Puerto Rico
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Rhode Island
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Texas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Utah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CBDRPplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * NBDPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * BD-STEPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Research Tools and Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Down Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthy Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Folic Acid and Birth Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pregnant? Donât Smoke!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * World Birth Defects Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Materials & Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Coloring Pages
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Folic Acid and You
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevent to Protect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Make a PACT for Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Birth Defects are Common, Costly, and Critical
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos & Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Buttonsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Best for You. Best for Baby.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevent to Protect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * PACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Quiz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * BD Prevention Monthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Real Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cleft Lip and Palate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clubfoot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Craniosynostosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Down Syndromeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Meganâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Calebâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Bryton and Fenixâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Keatonâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Markâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Eye Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fetal Alcohol Syndrome Disorders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gastroschisis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Coarctation of the Aorta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hypoplastic left heart syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tetralogy of Fallot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Other types of heart defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Omphalocele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Spina Bifidaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Randi, Karen, & Robert
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Nikiaâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Dailyâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Eliâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Elleyâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Katieâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zacharyâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Bethâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Henryâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Reneeâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Clarkâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Anifaâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Share Your Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Information for Healthcare Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Information for Familiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Finding Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Health Care Providerâs Role
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Links to Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDCâs Work

![Zika and Pregnancy Button](/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/button-zika-
preg-180px.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

