

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Congenital Heart Defects (CHDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Facts about Tricuspid Atresia

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

Tricuspid atresia (pronounced try-CUSP-id uh-TREE-zhuh) is a birth defect of
the heart where the valve that controls blood flow from the right upper
chamber of the heart to the right lower chamber of the heart doesn't form at
all. In babies with this defect, blood can't flow correctly through the heart
and to the rest of the body.

![Tricuspid Atreasia](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/tricuspid_Atresia.jpg)

Click here to view a larger image

### What is Tricuspid Atresia?

Tricuspid atresia is a birth defect of the tricuspid valve, which is the valve
that controls blood flow from the right atrium (upper right chamber of the
heart) to the right ventricle (lower right chamber of the heart). Tricuspid
atresia occurs when this valve doesn't form at all, and no blood can go from
the right atrium through the right ventricle to the lungs for oxygen. Because
a baby with tricuspid atresia may need surgery or other procedures soon after
birth, this birth defect is considered a critical congenital heart defect.
Congenital means present at birth.

In a baby without a congenital heart defect, the right side of the heart pumps
oxygen-poor blood from the heart to the lungs through the main pulmonary
artery. The blood that comes back from the lungs is oxygen-rich and can then
be pumped to the rest of the body through the aorta. In babies with tricuspid
atresia, the tricuspid valve that controls blood flow from the right atrium to
the right ventricle is not formed, so blood is unable to get to the right
ventricle and out to the lungs. For this reason, the right ventricle can be
underdeveloped. The main pulmonary artery may also be small with very little
blood going through it to the lungs.

![Tricuspid Atresia Comparison](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/Tricuspid_Atresia-
comparison_270px.jpg)

Click here to view a larger image

In tricuspid atresia, since blood cannot directly flow from the right atrium
to the right ventricle, blood must use other routes to bypass the unformed
tricuspid valve. Babies born with tricuspid atresia often also have an atrial
septal defect, which is a hole between the right and left atria, or a
ventricular septal defect, which is a hole between the right and left
ventricles. These defects allow oxygen-rich blood to mix with oxygen-poor
blood, so that oxygen-rich blood has a way to get pumped to the rest of the
body.

Doctors may give the baby medicine to keep the baby's _patent ductus
arteriosus_ (PDA in the image) open after the baby's birth. The PDA is the
blood vessel that allows blood to move around the baby's lungs before the baby
is born, and it usually closes after birth. Keeping this connection open
allows blood to get to the lungs for oxygen and bypass the small right side of
the heart.

Some babies with tricuspid atresia can also have other heart defects,
including transposition of the great arteries (TGA). In TGA, the main
connections (arteries) from the heart are reversed. The main pulmonary artery,
which normally carries oxygen-poor blood from the right side of the heart to
the lungs, now arises from the left side and carries oxygen-rich blood
returning from the lungs back to the lungs. The aorta, which normally carries
blood from the left side of the heart to the body, now arises from the right
side and carries oxygen-poor blood back out to the body. When a baby has both
tricuspid atresia and TGA, blood is able to get to the lungs because the main
pulmonary artery arises from the developed left ventricle. However, blood
cannot get out to the body because the aorta arises from the poorly formed
right ventricle and is small.

Learn more about how the heart works »

### Occurrence

In a 2019 study using data from birth defects tracking systems across the
United States, researchers estimated that each year about 404  babies in the
United States are born with Tricuspid Atresia. In other words, about 1 in
every 9,751 babies born in the United States each year are born with Tricuspid
Atresia.1

### Causes and Risk Factors

The causes of heart defects, such as tricuspid atresia, among most babies are
unknown. Some babies have heart defects because of changes in their _genes_ or
_chromosomes_. Heart defects also are thought to be caused by a combination of
genes and other factors, such as the things the mother comes in contact with
in the environment, or what the mother eats or drinks, or certain medicines
she uses.

Read more about CDC's work on causes and risk factors for birth defects

### Diagnosis

Tricuspid atresia may be diagnosed during pregnancy or soon after a baby is
born.

##### During Pregnancy

During pregnancy, there are screening tests (also called prenatal tests) to
check for birth defects and other conditions. Tricuspid atresia might be seen
during an ultrasound (which creates pictures of the body). Some findings from
the ultrasound may make the health care provider suspect that a baby might
have tricuspid atresia. If so, the health care provider can request a fetal
echocardiogram to confirm the diagnosis. A fetal _echocardiogram_ is an
ultrasound specifically of the baby's heart and major blood vessels that is
performed during the pregnancy. This test can show problems with the structure
of the heart and how the heart is working with this defect.

##### After a Baby is Born

Babies born with tricuspid atresia will show symptoms at birth or very soon
afterwards. They may have a bluish looking skin color, called cyanosis,
because their blood doesn't carry enough oxygen. Infants with tricuspid
atresia can have additional symptoms such as:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Problems breathing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ashen or bluish skin color
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Poor feeding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Extreme sleepiness

During a physical examination, a doctor can see the symptoms, such as bluish
skin or problems breathing. Using a stethoscope, a doctor will check for a
heart murmur (an abnormal "whooshing" sound caused by blood not flowing
properly), or other sounds that may indicate a heart problem. However, it is
not uncommon for a heart murmur to be absent right at birth.

If a doctor suspects that there might be a problem, the doctor can request one
or more tests to confirm the diagnosis of tricuspid atresia. The most common
test is an echocardiogram. This is an ultrasound of the heart that can show
problems with the structure of the heart, like holes in the walls between the
chambers, and any irregular blood flow. Cardiac catheterization (inserting a
thin tube into a blood vessel and guiding it to the heart) also can confirm
the diagnosis by looking at the inside of the heart and measuring the blood
pressure and oxygen. An electrocardiogram (EKG), which measures the electrical
activity of the heart, and other medical tests may also be used to make the
diagnosis.

Tricuspid atresia is a critical congenital heart defect (critical CHD) that
also can be detected with newborn screening using pulse oximetry (also known
as pulse ox). Pulse oximetry is a simple, painless bedside test to estimate
the amount of oxygen in a baby's blood. The test is done using a machine
called a pulse oximeter, with sensors placed on the baby's skin. Low levels of
oxygen in the blood can be a sign of a critical CHD. Newborn screening using
pulse oximetry can identify some infants with a critical CHD, like tricuspid
atresia, before they show any symptoms.

### Treatment

##### Medicines

Some babies and children will need medicines to help strengthen the heart
muscle, lower their blood pressure, and help the body get rid of extra fluid.

##### Nutrition

Some babies with tricuspid atresia become tired while feeding and do not eat
enough to gain weight. To make sure babies have a healthy weight gain, a
special high-calorie formula might be prescribed. Some babies become extremely
tired while feeding and might need to be fed through a _feeding tube_.

##### Surgery

Surgical treatment for tricuspid atresia depends on its severity and presence
of other heart defects. Soon after a baby with tricuspid atresia is born, one
or more surgeries may be needed to increase blood flow to the lungs and bypass
the poorly functioning right side of the heart. Other surgeries or procedures
may be needed later. These surgeries, described below, do not cure tricuspid
atresia, but they help restore heart function. Sometimes medicines are given
to help treat symptoms of the defect before or after surgery.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. Septostomy

A septostomy may be done within the first few days or weeks of a baby's life,
and creates or enlarges the atrial septal defect, the hole between the right
and left upper chambers (atria). This is done so that more oxygen-poor blood
can mix with oxygen-rich blood, so that more oxygen-rich blood can get to the
body.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2. Banding

If the baby has other heart defects along with tricuspid atresia, sometimes
there is too much blood flowing to the lungs and not enough going out to the
rest of the body. Too much blood in the lungs can damage them. If this is the
problem, surgery may be done within the first few weeks of a baby's life to
place a band around the artery going to the lungs (main pulmonary artery) to
control the blood flow to the lungs. This banding is a temporary procedure and
will likely be removed.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3. Shunt Procedure

This surgery usually is done within the first 2 weeks of a baby's life.
Surgeons create a bypass (shunt) from the aorta to the main pulmonary artery,
allowing blood to get to the lungs. If the aorta is small, as occurs when the
baby also has transposition of the great arteries, the surgeon will also
enlarge the aorta at this time. After this procedure, an infant's skin still
might look bluish because oxygen-rich and oxygen-poor blood still mix in the
heart.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4. Bi-directional Glenn Procedure

This usually is performed when an infant is 4 to 6 months of age. This
procedure creates a direct connection between the main pulmonary artery and
the superior vena cava, the vessel returning oxygen-poor blood from the upper
part of the body to the heart. This allows blood returning from the body to
flow directly to the lungs and bypass the heart.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5. Fontan Procedure

This procedure usually is done sometime around 2 years of age. Doctors connect
the main pulmonary artery and the inferior vena cava, the vessel returning
oxygen-poor blood from the lower part of the body to the heart, allowing the
rest of the blood coming back from the body to go to the lungs. Once this
procedure is complete, oxygen-rich and oxygen-poor blood no longer mix in the
heart and an infant's skin will no longer look bluish.

Infants who have these surgeries are not cured; they might have lifelong
complications. If the tricuspid atresia is very complex, or the heart becomes
weak after the surgeries, a heart transplant might be needed. An infant or
child who receives a heart transplant will need to take medicines for the rest
of his or her life to prevent the body from rejecting the new heart.

Babies born with tricuspid atresia will need regular follow-up visits with a
_cardiologist_ (a heart doctor) to monitor their progress and check for other
health conditions that might develop as they get older. As adults, they may
need more surgery or medical care for other possible problems.

### References:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. Mai CT, Isenburg JL, Canfield MA, et al. for the National Birth Defects Prevention Network. National population-based estimates for major birth defects, 2010-2014. Birth Defects Res 2019; 1- 16\. https://doi.org/10.1002/bdr2.1589.

##### Tricuspid Atresia

![Tricuspid Atresia](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/tricuspid_atresia.jpg)

The images are in the public domain and thus free of any copyright
restrictions. As a matter of courtesy we request that the content provider
(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center on Birth Defects
and Developmental Disabilities) be credited and notified in any public or
private usage of this image.

Close

##### Tricuspid Atresia Comparison

![Tricuspid Atresia Comparison](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/tricuspid_atresia-
comparison_450px.jpg)

The images are in the public domain and thus free of any copyright
restrictions. As a matter of courtesy we request that the content provider
(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center on Birth Defects
and Developmental Disabilities) be credited and notified in any public or
private usage of this image.

Close

Page last reviewed: November 12, 2019

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Congenital Heart Defects Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What are CHDsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How the Heart Works
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Critical Congenital Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Screening
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Current Research Activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Information for Healthcare Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Specific Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Atrial Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Atrioventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Coarctation of the Aorta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * D-Transposition of the Great Arteries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pulmonary Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tetralogy of Fallot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Return
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tricuspid Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Truncus Arteriosus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Living with a CHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tracking & Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Living with a Heart Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Free Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tracking and Research Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CHD Tracking and Research Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 10 Years of Improving Understanding of CHDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Multimedia and Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * A Heart-To-Heart Chat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Real Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Links to Other Resources

Information For…

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policy Makers



**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

