

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Congenital Heart Defects (CHDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Facts about Atrioventricular Septal Defect (AVSD)

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

![Atrioventricular Septal Defect \(AVSD\)](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/avsd-
sm.jpg)

Click here to view a larger image

![Graphic: Atrioventricular Septal Defect \(AVSD\) with a normal
heart](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/avsd-with-normal-sm.jpg)

Click here to view a larger image

An atrioventricular septal defect (pronounced EY-tree-oh-ven-TRIC-u-lar SEP-
tal DEE-fekt) or AVSD is a heart defect affecting the valves between the
heart's upper and lower chambers and the walls between the chambers.

### What is Atrioventricular Septal Defect?

An atrioventricular septal defect (AVSD) is a heart defect in which there are
holes between the chambers of the right and left sides of the heart, and the
valves that control the flow of blood between these chambers may not be formed
correctly. This condition is also called atrioventricular canal (AV canal)
defect or endocardial cushion defect. In AVSD, blood flows where it normally
should not go. The blood may also have a lower than normal amount of oxygen,
and extra blood can flow to the lungs. This extra blood being pumped into the
lungs forces the heart and lungs to work hard and may lead to _congestive
heart failure_.

There are two general types of AVSD that can occur, depending on which
structures are not formed correctly:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. **Complete AVSD  
**A complete AVSD occurs when there is a large hole in the center of the heart
which allows blood to flow between all four chambers of the heart. This hole
occurs where the septa (walls) separating the two top chambers ( _atria_ _)_
and two bottom chambers ( _ventricles_) normally meet. There is also one
common atrioventricular valve in the center of the heart instead of two
separate valves - the _tricuspid valve_ on the right side of the heart and the
_mitral valve_ on the left side of the heart. This common valve often has
leaflets (flaps) that may not be formed correctly or do not close tightly. A
complete AVSD arises during pregnancy when the common valve fails to separate
into the two distinct valves (tricuspid and mitral valves) and when the septa
(walls) that split the upper and lower chambers of the heart do not grow all
the way to meet in the center of the heart.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2. **Partial or Incomplete AVSD  
**A partial or incomplete AVSD occurs when the heart has some, but not all of
the defects of a complete AVSD. There is usually a hole in the atrial wall or
in the ventricular wall near the center of the heart. A partial AVSD usually
has both mitral and tricuspid valves, but one of the valves (usually mitral)
may not close completely, allowing blood to leak backward from the left
ventricle into the left atrium.

Learn more about how the heart works »

### Occurrence

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimates that about
2,118 babies (1 in 1,859 babies) are born with AVSD every year in the United
States.1

### Causes and Risk Factors

The causes of congenital heart defects, such as AVSD, among most babies are
unknown. Some babies have heart defects because of changes in their _genes_ or
_chromosomes_. In particular, AVSD is common in babies with Down syndrome, a
genetic condition that involves an extra chromosome 21 (also called trisomy
21). Congenital heart defects are also thought to be caused by the combination
of genes and other risk factors, such as things the mother comes in contact
with in her environment, what she eats or drinks, or certain medications she
uses during pregnancy.

Read more about CDC's work on causes and risk factors »

### Diagnosis

AVSD may be diagnosed during pregnancy or soon after the baby is born.

##### During Pregnancy

During pregnancy, there are screening tests (also called prenatal tests) to
check for birth defects and other conditions. AVSD may be diagnosed during
pregnancy with an ultrasound test (which creates pictures of the baby using
sound waves), but whether or not the defect can be seen with the ultrasound
test depends on the size or type (partial or complete) of the AVSD. The
healthcare provider can request a fetal _echocardiogram_ to confirm the
diagnosis if AVSD is suspected. A fetal echocardiogram is an ultrasound of the
baby's heart which shows more detail than the routine prenatal ultrasound
test. The fetal echocardiogram can show problems with the structure of the
heart and how well the heart is working.

##### After the Baby is Born

During a physical exam of an infant, a complete AVSD may be suspected. Using a
stethoscope, a doctor will often hear a heart murmur (an abnormal "whooshing"
sound caused by blood flowing through the abnormal hole). However, not all
heart murmurs are present at birth. Babies with a complete AVSD usually do
show signs of problems within the first few weeks after birth. When symptoms
do occur, they may include

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Breathing problems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pounding heart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Weak pulse
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ashen or bluish skin color
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Poor feeding, slow weight gain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tiring easily
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Swelling of the legs or belly

For partial AVSDs, if the holes between the chambers of the heart are not
large, the signs and symptoms may not occur in the newborn or infancy periods.
In these cases, people with a partial AVSD might not be diagnosed for years.

Symptoms which might indicate that a child's complete AVSD or partial AVSD is
getting worse include

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Arrhythmia, an abnormal heart rhythm. An arrhythmia can cause the heart to beat too fast, too slow, or erratically. When the heart does not beat properly, it can't pump blood effectively.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Congestive heart failure, when the heart cannot pump enough blood and oxygen to meet the needs of the body.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pulmonary hypertension, a type of high blood pressure that affects the arteries in the lungs and the right side of the heart.

The healthcare provider can request one or more tests to confirm the diagnosis
of AVSD. The most common test is an echocardiogram. This is an ultrasound of
the heart that can show problems with the structure of the heart, like holes
between the chambers of the right and left side of the heart, and any
irregular blood flow. An electrocardiogram (EKG), which measures the
electrical activity of the heart, chest x-rays, and other medical tests may
also be used to make the diagnosis. Because many babies with Down syndrome
have an AVSD, all infants with Down syndrome should have an echocardiogram to
look for an AVSD or other heart defects.

### Treatments

All AVSDs, both partial and complete types, usually require surgery. During
surgery, any holes in the chambers are closed using patches. If the mitral
valve does not close completely, it is repaired or replaced. For a complete
AVSD, the common valve is separated into two distinct valves - one on the
right side and one on the left side.

The age at which surgery is done depends on the child's health and the
specific structure of the AVSD. If possible, surgery should be done before
there is permanent damage to the lungs from too much blood being pumped to the
lungs. Medication may be used to treat congestive heart failure, but it is
only a short term measure until the infant is strong enough for surgery.

Infants who have surgical repairs for AVSD are not cured; they might have
lifelong complications. The most common of these complications is a leaky
mitral valve. This is when the mitral valve does not close all the way so that
it allows blood to flow backwards through the valve. A leaky mitral valve can
cause the heart to work harder to get enough blood to the rest of the body; a
leaky mitral valve might have to be surgically repaired. A child or adult with
an AVSD will need regular follow-up visits with a cardiologist (a heart
doctor) to monitor his or her progress, avoid complications, and check for
other health conditions that might develop as the child gets older. With
proper treatment, most babies with AVSD grow up to lead healthy, productive
lives.

### Reference

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. Mai CT, Isenburg JL, Canfield MA, et al. for the National Birth Defects Prevention Network. National population-based estimates for major birth defects, 2010-2014. Birth Defects Res 2019; 1- 16\. https://doi.org/10.1002/bdr2.1589.

##### Atrioventricular Septal Defect (AVSD)

![Atrioventricular Septal Defect
\(AVSD\)](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/avsd-575px.jpg)

The images are in the public domain and thus free of any copyright
restrictions. As a matter of courtesy we request that the content provider
(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center on Birth Defects
and Developmental Disabilities) be credited and notified in any public or
private usage of this image.

Close

##### Atrioventricular Septal Defect (AVSD)

![Atrioventricular Septal Defect \(AVSD\)](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/avsd-
with-normal.jpg)

The images are in the public domain and thus free of any copyright
restrictions. As a matter of courtesy we request that the content provider
(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center on Birth Defects
and Developmental Disabilities) be credited and notified in any public or
private usage of this image.

Close

Page last reviewed: November 12, 2019

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Congenital Heart Defects Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What are CHDsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How the Heart Works
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Critical Congenital Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Screening
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Current Research Activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Information for Healthcare Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Specific Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Atrial Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Atrioventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Coarctation of the Aorta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * D-Transposition of the Great Arteries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pulmonary Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tetralogy of Fallot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Return
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tricuspid Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Truncus Arteriosus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Living with a CHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tracking & Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Living with a Heart Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Free Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tracking and Research Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CHD Tracking and Research Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 10 Years of Improving Understanding of CHDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Multimedia and Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * A Heart-To-Heart Chat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Real Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Links to Other Resources

Information For…

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policy Makers



**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

