

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Pregnancy

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Pregnant? Don't Smoke!

Minus

Related Pages

![Pregnant woman holding broken
cigarette](/pregnancy/features/images/pregnantdontsmoke_456px.jpg)

**Smoking during pregnancy can cause babies to be born too small or too early
(preterm birth), certain birth defects, and stillbirth. Quitting smoking can
be hard, but it is one of the best ways a woman can protect herself and her
developing baby. For free help, call 1-800-QUIT-NOW (1-800-784-8669).**

Many people know that smoking causes cancer, heart disease, and stroke. But
women who smoke during pregnancy put themselves and their developing babies at
risk for other health problems. Even being around tobacco smoke puts a woman
and her developing baby at risk for health problems.

### Smoking during Pregnancy Affects Your Developing Baby's Health

Smoking during pregnancy can cause babies to be born too small or too early.
Women who smoke during pregnancy are more likely to have a baby with a birth
defect of the mouth and lip called an orofacial cleft.

Babies who breathe in other people's tobacco smoke are more likely to have ear
infections and lung infections, like bronchitis and pneumonia; if they have
asthma, breathing in other people's tobacco smoke can trigger asthma attacks.
These babies are also more likely to die from Sudden Infant Death Syndrome
(SIDS), a sudden and unexpected infant death that has no immediately obvious
cause after investigation.

### It Is Never "Too Late" to Quit Smoking During Pregnancy!

Quitting smoking before getting pregnant is best. But for women who are
already pregnant, quitting as early as possible can still help protect against
some health problems for their developing babies, such as being born too small
or too early. It is never too late to quit smoking.

It is important to quit smoking for good. A women might think it is safe to
start smoking again after her baby is born. But babies of mothers who smoke
may breathe in the secondhand tobacco smoke that can harm their health.
Although quitting for good can be hard, the benefits are worth it--a healthy
baby and many more years of good health to enjoy with him or her.

If you or someone you know wants to quit smoking, talk to your healthcare
provider about strategies. For support in quitting, including free quit
coaching, a free quit plan, free educational materials, and referrals to local
resources, please call 1-800-QUIT-NOWexternal icon (1-800-784-8669); TTY
1-800-332-8615.

More Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Smokefree Women external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tobacco Use and Pregnancy 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Great American Smokeout® Challenge external icon

Page last reviewed: February 26, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Pregnancy Homepage

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Before Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * During Pregnancyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diabetesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Type 1 and Type 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gestational
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * My Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Medications: Treating for Two
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Preventing Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * After the Baby Arrives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Trouble Getting Pregnant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Avoiding Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Opioid Use During Pregnancyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Basics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Articles and Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Identifying Babies Born Exposed to Opioids
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDCâs Work
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika and Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Emerging Threats to Mothers and Babies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Articlesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pregnant? Donât Smoke!



  
![ Zika and Pregnancy](/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/button-zika-preg-180px.jpg)

![Keep your kids healthy.
cdc.gov/parents](https://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/parents/keepyourkidshealthy_130x73.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

