

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Birth Defects

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Real Stories: Living with Cleft Lip and Palate

Minus

Related Pages

Cleft lip and cleft palate are birth defects that occur when a baby's lip or
mouth do not form properly during pregnancy. To learn what it's like to live
with this condition or how families are affected, read these real stories from
people living with cleft lip and palate.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cade's Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Daniel and Jacob's Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jake's Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Josh and Alissa's Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Josh's Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Joshua's Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pablo's Story

### Cade's Story - Written by his mom, Michele

![Cade as an infant a
tween](/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/images/Cade-500px.jpg)

**Michele and her son Cade, who was born with** **cleft lip and cleft palate**
**, share Cade 's story. Cade has learned to define his disability, not let it
define him, and to use it to help others by telling his story.**

My son Cade was born April of 2000 with a severe case of cleft lip and palate.
I didn't learn about Cade's cleft during my pregnancy, and after his birth, I
had a lot to absorb and learn very quickly. Even though at first we were
devastated and scared, my husband and I immediately embraced the challenges we
knew we faced, and we were just as proud of our new son as if he had been born
without a birth defect. We knew that God had given Cade to us for a reason,
and we spent the first few months of Cade's life educating ourselves about his
condition and things we could do to make Cade's life as normal as possible.
Although there were things we had to do differently, we tried very hard to
treat Cade as though there was nothing different about him. Before his first
corrective surgery, we proudly showed him off, took pictures of him, and sent
him to daycare as though there was nothing different about him. We focused on
educating everyone we came in contact with, rather than sheltering him at
home.

When Cade began school, sometimes the other children would tease him. As much
as it broke my heart when he was bullied, we explained that everyone gets made
fun of and that we all have insecurities. We asked our family and close
friends to share their own experiences and insecurities, and encouraged Cade
to address his differences. When he was the star of the week in school, he
would take in pictures from infancy and educate his classmates and teachers
about his condition. Before each surgery, I would join him at school to talk
about the surgery in front of his class. As a result, the other children
became supportive and protective of Cade, rather than teasing him, once they
knew more about what he was going through.

Today, Cade has had five reconstructive surgeries, five sets of ear tubes, and
has many more surgeries to come. I admire Cade for his determination,
confidence, and his caring and outgoing personality. He has learned to define
his disability, not let it define him, and to use it to help others by telling
his story.

From Cade:

God has made me this way for a reason, and I feel his reason was for me to
help show other kids and adults that it's ok to have a disability. It
shouldn't hold you back. It has never stopped me from doing anything. Sure
there are things I don't like about myself, but overall I am happy with the
way I look. My goals are to continue to make people feel better about
themselves and strive to become a professional baseball player. If I had
message it would be to say "look at me, not my disability!" God made you this
way for a reason too, you have a gift not a disability so hold your head high
and go for your dreams.

### Daniel and Jacob's Story--Written by their mom, Kristin

![Daniel and Jacob holding pictuers of themselves as
infants](/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/images/Daniel-and-Jacob-500px.jpg)

**Kristin 's sons are three years apart, both born with a ****cleft lip and
cleft palate** **.   Kristin shares her family's difficulties that they
experienced, but also shares how both boys are resilient, strong, and healthy.
Read their story below.**

I have a vivid memory of hearing the doctor say to me, "Your son will have a
cleft lip and palate." Time stopped temporarily, and I felt suspended on the
exam table. Cleft lip and palate? Me? My baby? As we anxiously awaited the
birth of this special son, I played over the scenarios in my mind. Would he
eat like other babies, would he look too very different? The wait was agony.
When the baby came he looked up at me with his steel blue eyes and cherubic
cheeks. Then, he nuzzled me softly, and I knew we would be alright. I would
buoy him up and help him thrive, and he would do the same for me.

Three years later, it was like a bad movie stuck in replay, "Your son will be
born with a cleft lip and palate." Wait a minute, I thought, I have already
done this. I already paid my medical bills; we completed the surgeries. We
have to do this again? Six months later my third son was born like his older
brother, with a cleft lip and palate. This baby would suffer more with a more
complicated condition. But it didn't matter, I knew how to do it now, and any
difficulties we experienced were swallowed up in our family's love. Both
children are resilient and active. My boys are strong and healthy. We have
endured much and are grateful and stronger for it.

### Jake's Story--Written by his mom, Kate

![Jake as and infant and toddler](/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/images/Jake-
infant-toddler-500px.jpg)

**Kate 's son, Jake, was born with a ****cleft lip** **.   In her family's
story, she shares her perspective of being a mother of a child with a cleft
and the difficulties she encountered as well as the growth she experienced.
Read her inspirational story below.**

When the ultrasound technician said, "Well, I see something that we need to
discuss," my husband squeezed my hand. This is what we'd been dreading. A
congenital heart defect had shown up in the last several generations of his
family, taking the lives of his uncle and brother. So when the technician said
"it looks like your son has a cleft lip," we actually laughed out loud. This
was clearly not the reaction she was used to. Once the initial relief wore
off, the reality began to sink in. Our son was different. His condition wasn't
life threatening, but his young life would be filled with surgery and pain,
therapy and frustration, bullying and exclusion. I grieved. And then I
prepared to care for him. I should have prepared to care for myself, too.

When Jake was born, the doctor held him up briefly, and then he and his twin
sister were whisked away to the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU). Everyone
told me once I saw him I'd instantly fall in love with that tiny wide smile.
But that's not the way it happened. Jake was a difficult newborn who would
arch, scream and fight. I began to panic before every feeding. I don't know if
it was because I didn't get to hold them for the first two days, or because I
wasn't breastfeeding, or because of a million other factors, but I wouldn't
bond with my son for another two months. Whatever the real reason I had
trouble bonding with Jake, I felt it must be because he was different, and I
was a horrible person for not being able to love him. He deserved so much
better than me. For the first few months, I lived in a haze of guilt, shame
and anger. I felt I had to hide these awful feelings and pretend like I was
the strong, loving mother I was supposed to be. There was so much help
available for my son. I didn't even know to look for help for myself.

Now, I have a fantastic support network of online forums, a local cleft
parents' group, and several close friends I've met through this experience.
But it took me a long time to find them all. I had to work through the
confusion of emotions on my own. To ease my feelings of guilt, I wrote and
illustrated a picture book about a young bear who wonders if his mama bear
loved him before his lip was repaired, or if she loves him now. I also started
a doll clinic where we make dolls with clefts and repair scars. I've found
peace in helping other parents through the difficult first year of the cleft
journey. There is a clear treatment path for children born with clefts. Their
needs are obvious to see. But the needs of their parents can get pushed aside
as unimportant, often by the parents themselves. As I've told many struggling
parents "to care for your child, you need to care for yourself first." That's
easy to say, but difficult to do. It feels selfish. Over the last two years,
I've had to learn how.

### Josh and Alissa's Story--Written by their mom, Susan

![Josh and Alissa with their mom, Susan
](/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/images/Josh-Alyssa-Lynch-430px.jpg)

**Susan shares her family 's story of two of their children, Josh and Alissa.
Josh and Alissa were adopted, both born with a ****cleft lip and cleft
palate** **. Read their family 's story below.**

Our experience with cleft lip and palate has expanded over the years through
the experiences of two of our three Chinese-born, adopted children: Emily,
Alissa, and Joshua. Alissa, was adopted at 18 months. She had a minor cleft
palate that was easily repaired in the United States with the help of a cleft
lip and palate team. She has experienced no issues since her repair. Joshua,
on the other hand, was adopted at age two, and he has had multiple surgeries
with the expectation of many more throughout his childhood. His first two
surgeries to repair his lip and palate were completed in China. Since coming
to the United States, Josh has had two more surgeries to repair his birth
defect. He receives specialized care through a cleft lip and palate team. We
travel over two hours each way to ensure that he has the best care possible.
Because kids with clefts need a variety of special services, cleft teams help
provide this specialized care in a coordinated manner. Even though we know
there are multiple surgeries in his future, we are so pleased with the efforts
of specialists and national associations in this country to provide
exceptional care for children like Alissa and Josh so that they can have the
best possible future.

### Josh's Story--Written by his mom, Krista

![Josh](/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/images/JoshK-417px.jpg)

**Josh was born with a** **cleft lip and cleft palate** **.   His mother,
Krista, shares Josh's inspirational story below.**

As a family of three, we decided to adopt a child from China. During the
adoption process, we agreed to adopt a child with special health care needs,
and shortly thereafter, we were matched with Josh, a little boy with cleft lip
and palate. His condition was surgically repaired while he was still in China,
when he was about two years old. He was reexamined after we brought him home,
and the doctors were impressed with his repair. He shouldn't need another
procedure until he's between eight and 10 years old.

Josh is doing beautifully so far. At first, he needed some speech therapy to
make sure he was on track, but he no longer needs these services because his
skills are age appropriate. He also did wonderful at picking up his new
English language. Josh is becoming quite the entertainer. He loves to make
people laugh and tease his older brother. We are so lucky to have him.

### Joshua's Story--Written by his mom, Candy

![Joshua as an infant and young
child](/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/images/JoshP-500px.jpg)

**Candy shares her family 's story of their son, Joshua, who was born with a
****cleft lip and cleft palate** **.   Joshua had many challenges in his first
three years, but is now a happy boy who can drink from a straw, blow bubbles,
kiss, and most of all - smile.  Read Joshua's story below.**

Joshua Aiden was born with a cleft lip and palate. Other than the fact that he
looked a little different, he was just like any other healthy baby. He had his
first surgery at only 3 months old. Surgeons repaired his lip and after the
surgery, it looked so good. But, after only three days, the sutures starting
coming out and his lip reopened. Joshua had over 14 heartbreaking surgeries
over the next three years. His palate repair healed as planned, but not his
lip.



Our miracle started at the mall, while taking Joshua's birthday pictures. A
professional baseball player named Mike Adams approached us about Joshua and
asked why his lip had not been repaired. When we explained our situation, he
asked if he could help us. Because of this, Joshua received a special surgery
using a technique that had not been used on Joshua before, and this time the
lip did not come apart. This has completely changed Joshua's life and ours. As
parents and grandparents, it was hard to watch Joshua undergo so many
surgeries and procedures. We only wanted Joshua to be healed and start living
his life without being stared or laughed at. The first time Joshua was able to
drink from a straw or even blow bubbles came just a couple of months ago. And
yes, I cried tears of joy, because he was so excited that he could drink from
a straw. He said "Look NaNa, I can do it. I can really do it. I am drinking
from my straw." These are just a couple of things you would not consider
important until you see all of your friends and classmates doing it and
knowing that you can't. Today Joshua can drink from a straw, blow bubbles,
kiss and most of all - smile. Joshua will have a few more surgeries in his
future, but this was the one that has changed him forever.

Babies are born with clefts every day, here and around the world. I know how
hard it is to see your child be treated differently just because of the way
they look. I do not let a day pass that I don't share our story. It is my
prayer that each and every baby born around the world with any form of cleft
will have a chance to smile just like Joshua has.

### Pablo's Story--Written by his mom, Belen

![Pablo as an infant and young
child](/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/images/Pablo-500px.jpg)

**Pablo was born with a** **cleft lip and cleft palate** **.   He is a brave
and strong little boy who is growing into a wonderful role model for other
kids with this condition.  His mom, Belen, shares Pablo's story below.**

Pablo is a bundle of energy. He can spend hours with his Legos, and he is a
proud Cub Scout. He loves video games, bike riding, and taking care of his
dog. In school, his favorite classes are P.E. and math. He has a really fun
personality--at the start of the new school year he said he was only going to
speak Spanish in class so that the teacher would not give him homework. As you
can guess, that did not work. He can be mischievous, too. Once he brought home
a book from the school's library titled How to Drive your Sister Crazy. And
even though he teases his big sister, he believes she knows everything and is
always asking her to explain things to him.

As much as he is like any other boy, Pablo is also different. He was born with
a cleft lip and palate. During my pregnancy, I had a hunch the baby in my
belly was a boy and that he had a disability. Still, it was hard to hear that
news. While still pregnant, I had to see many specialists and received so much
information that overwhelmed and depressed me.

Many people believe that kids like Pablo only need plastic surgeries to be
okay. Depending on the severity of the cleft, these kids see other specialists
too. In Pablo's case, we started with an occupational therapist and a speech
therapist (who he still sees weekly). We also meet with a speech pathologist
regularly as well as an ear, nose, and throat doctor, a dentist, an
orthodontist, and a plastic surgeon. By the age of five, Pablo had multiple
ear tube surgeries and dental procedures that required him to be put asleep.
When he was younger, it was his constant earaches that worried me the most,
but now it is the orthodontic work. He is brave and strong, but at his age, he
does not accept all medical procedures and treatments well. And when he feels
frustrated and in pain, he often blames me. But, he is also starting to
understand that all of his wonderful doctors want the best for him. That part
makes me happy. He is starting to ask doctors questions, and he is starting to
ask about options. I know that one day he will be a wonderful role model for
other kids with cleft lip and palate. And I love watching him grow and
foreseeing the man he will become.

Page last reviewed: December 5, 2019

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Birth Defects Homepage

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What are Birth Defects?plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventing Birth Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 5 Ways to Lower the Risk of Neural Tube Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Specific Birth Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Anophthalmia / Microphthalmia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Anotia / Microtia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cleft Lip / Cleft Palate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Congenital Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Atrial Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Atrioventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Coarctation of the Aorta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * D-Transposition of the Great Arteries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pulmonary Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tetralogy of Fallot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Return
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tricuspid Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Truncus Arteriosus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Craniosynostosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diaphragmatic Hernia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Down Syndromeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Growth Charts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Esophageal Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gastroschisis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hypospadias
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Microcephaly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Neural tube defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Anencephaly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Encephalocele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Spina Bifida
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Omphalocele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Upper and Lower Limb Reduction Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research & Trackingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MACDP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State-based Trackingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Arizona
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Colorado
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Florida
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Illinois
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Kentucky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Michigan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Minnesota
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * New Jersey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Oklahoma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Oregon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Puerto Rico
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Rhode Island
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Texas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Utah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CBDRPplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * NBDPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * BD-STEPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Research Tools and Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Down Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthy Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Folic Acid and Birth Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pregnant? Donât Smoke!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * World Birth Defects Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Materials & Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Coloring Pages
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Folic Acid and You
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevent to Protect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Make a PACT for Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Birth Defects are Common, Costly, and Critical
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos & Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Buttonsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Best for You. Best for Baby.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevent to Protect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * PACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Quiz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * BD Prevention Monthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Real Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cleft Lip and Palate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clubfoot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Craniosynostosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Down Syndromeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Meganâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Calebâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Bryton and Fenixâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Keatonâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Markâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Eye Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fetal Alcohol Syndrome Disorders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gastroschisis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Coarctation of the Aorta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hypoplastic left heart syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tetralogy of Fallot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Other types of heart defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Omphalocele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Spina Bifidaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Randi, Karen, & Robert
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Nikiaâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Dailyâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Eliâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Elleyâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Katieâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zacharyâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Bethâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Henryâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Reneeâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Clarkâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Anifaâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Share Your Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Information for Healthcare Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Information for Familiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Finding Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Health Care Providerâs Role
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Links to Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDCâs Work

![Zika and Pregnancy Button](/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/button-zika-
preg-180px.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

