

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

_Treating for Two:_ Medicine and Pregnancy

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Antibiotic Treatments for Urinary Tract Infections Are Commonly Prescribed
To Pregnant Women

Minus

Related Pages

![Woman holding a glass of water and
pills](/pregnancy/meds/treatingfortwo/features/images/kf-UTI-antibiotic-
treatments-500px.jpg)

Some antibiotic treatments for urinary tract infections (UTIs), such as
nitrofurantoin and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, have been linked to birth
defects. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG)
recommends avoiding these antibiotic treatments in early pregnancy if
possible. A study from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)
**found that** **about 4 in 10 women with UTIs during early pregnancy filled a
prescription for nitrofurantoin or trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole.** Healthcare
providers of various specialties should be familiar with ACOG's
recommendations about prescribing specific antibiotics to pregnant women and
consider the possibility of early pregnancy when treating women of
reproductive age. To help determine treatment options, women should inform all
of their healthcare providers if they are pregnant or are planning to become
pregnant.

Read the full scientific article.

### Main Findings

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * In this study, about 1 in 10 pregnant women had a diagnosis of a UTI just before or during pregnancy.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About 3 in 10 women with a diagnosis of a UTI during early pregnancy filled a prescription for nitrofurantoin and about 1 in 10 filled a prescription for trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Given the recommendations to avoid these antibiotics in early pregnancy if possible, it is important that healthcare providers be familiar with ACOG recommendations and that they consider the possibility of early pregnancy when treating women of reproductive age.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Women who are pregnant or planning to become pregnant should talk to their healthcare provider before stopping any current medicine or starting new medicines.

### About This Study

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC researchers used the Truven Health MarketScan® Commercial Database. These data are health insurance claims (records from hospital, doctor, and pharmacy visits) from a large sample of individuals with mainly employer-sponsored private insurance. ** **
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * In this study, researchers identified over 34,000 pregnant women aged 15-44 years in 2014 who had a health insurance claim for a UTI. ** **
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Researchers looked for antibiotic prescriptions filled at outpatient pharmacies by women with UTIs.

### Our Work

![Treating For Two. Safer Medication Use in
Pregnancy.](/pregnancy/meds/treatingfortwo/images/treating-for-two-
btn-300px.gif)

CDC's National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (NCBDDD)
is working to improve the health of women and babies through its Treating for
Two: Safer Medication Use in Pregnancy initiative. Through Treating for Two,
CDC is working with its partners, other federal agencies, and the public to
understand trends in medicine use among pregnant women and women of
reproductive age, and to provide women and healthcare providers with
information about the safety or risk of using specific medicines during
pregnancy. This information will allow women and their doctors to make
informed decisions about treating health conditions during pregnancy.

### More Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * https://www.cdc.gov/pregnancy/meds/treatingfortwo/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * https://mothertobaby.org/external icon

### Key Findings Reference

Ailes EC, Summers AD, Tran EL, Gilboa SM, Arnold KE, Meaney-Delman D, &
Reefhuis, J. Antibiotic Dispensations to Privately-Insured Pregnant Women with
Urinary Tract Infections, United States 2014. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep
2018;67:18-22.

Page last reviewed: November 8, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home _Treating for Two_ Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Basics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Findings by Health Condition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Multimedia & Tools expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Posters and Fact Sheets expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 3 Things to Discuss with Your Healthcare Provider
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Treating for Two_ Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographics expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Safer Medication Use in Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Podcasts and Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Buttons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Key Findings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDCâs Work

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

