

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Congenital Heart Defects (CHDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Facts about Truncus Arteriosus

English (US)

Minus

Related Pages

![Truncus Arteriosus](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/Truncus_arteriosus-sm.jpg)

Click here to view a larger image



![Normal Heart](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/normal-heart-sm.jpg)

Click here to view a larger image

Truncus arteriosus pronounced TRUNG-kus ahr-teer-e-O-sus), also known as
common truncus, is a rare defect of the heart in which a single common blood
vessel comes out of the heart, instead of the usual two vessels (the _main
pulmonary artery_ and _aorta_).

### What is Truncus Arteriosus

Truncus arteriosus is a birth defect of the heart. It occurs when the blood
vessel coming out of the heart in the developing baby fails to separate
completely during development, leaving a connection between the aorta and
pulmonary artery. There are several different types of truncus, depending on
how the arteries remain connected. There is also usually a hole between the
bottom two chambers of the heart (ventricles) called a ventricular septal
defect. Because a baby with this defect may need surgery or other procedures
soon after birth, truncus arteriosus is considered a critical congenital heart
defect (CCHD). Congenital means present at birth.

In a baby without a congenital heart defect, the right side of the heart pumps
oxygen-poor blood through the pulmonary artery to the lungs. The left side of
the heart pumps oxygen-rich blood through the aorta to the rest of the body.

In babies with a truncus arteriosus, oxygen-poor blood and oxygen-rich blood
are mixed together as blood flows to the lungs and the rest of the body. As a
result, too much blood goes to the lungs and the heart works harder to pump
blood to the rest of the body. Also, instead of having both an _aortic valve_
and a _pulmonary valve_, babies with truncus arteriosus have a single common
valve (truncal valve) controlling blood flow out of the heart. The truncal
valve is often abnormal. The valve can be thickened and narrowed, which can
block the blood as it leaves the heart. It can also leak, causing blood that
leaves the heart to leak back into the heart across the valve.

Learn more about how the heart works »

### Occurrence

Truncus arteriosus occurs in less than one out of every 10,000 live births. It
can occur by itself or as part of certain genetic disorders. There are about
250 cases of truncus arteriosus per year in the United States.1

### Causes and Risk Factors

The causes of heart defects, such as truncus arteriosus, among most babies are
unknown. Some babies have congenital heart defects because of changes in their
_genes_ or _chromosomes_. Congenital heart defects are also thought to be
caused by the combination of genes and other risk factors such as things the
mother comes in contact with in her environment, or what the mother eats or
drinks, or certain medications she uses.

Read more about CDC's work on causes and risk factors »

### Diagnosis

Truncus arteriosus may be diagnosed during pregnancy or soon after the baby is
born.

##### During Pregnancy

During pregnancy, there are screening tests (also called prenatal tests) to
check for birth defects and other conditions. Some heart defects might be seen
during an ultrasound (which creates pictures of the body). If a health care
provider suspect a baby might have truncus arteriosus, the health care
provider can request a fetal _echocardiogram_ to confirm the diagnosis. A
fetal echocardiogram is a more detailed ultrasound of the baby's heart. This
test can show problems with the structure of the heart, like a single large
vessel coming from the heart, and how the heart is working with this defect.

##### After a Baby is Born

Infants with truncus arteriosus usually are in distress in the first few days
of life because of the high amount of blood going to the lungs which makes the
heart work harder. Infants with truncus arteriosus can have a bluish looking
skin color, called cyanosis, because their blood doesn't carry enough oxygen.
Infants with truncus arteriosus or other conditions causing cyanosis can have
symptoms such as:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Problems breathing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pounding heart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Weak pulse
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ashen or bluish skin color
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Poor feeding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Extreme sleepiness

If a health care provider suspects a baby might have truncus arteriosus, the
health care provider can request an echocardiogram to confirm the diagnosis.
An echocardiogram is an ultrasound of the heart that can show problems with
the structure of the heart, like the single large vessel coming from the heart
or misshapen truncal valve. It can also show how the heart is working (or not)
with this defect, like if the blood is leaking back into the heart or if it is
moving through a hole between the ventricles. Echocardiograms are also useful
for helping the doctor follow the child's health over time.

Truncus arteriosus is a critical congenital heart defect (CCHD) that may be
detected with newborn pulse oximetry screening (also known as pulse ox). Pulse
oximetry is a simple bedside test to determine the amount of oxygen in a
baby's blood. Low levels of oxygen in the blood can be a sign of a CCHD.
Newborn screening using pulse oximetry can identify some infants with a CCHD,
like truncus arteriosus, before they show any symptoms.

### Treatment

##### Medications

Some babies with truncus arteriosus also will need medicines to help
strengthen the heart muscle, lower their blood pressure, and help their body
get rid of extra fluid.

##### Nutrition

Some babies with truncus arteriosus might become tired while feeding and might
not eat enough to gain weight. To make sure babies have a healthy weight gain,
a special high-calorie formula might be prescribed. Some babies become
extremely tired while feeding and might need to be fed through a _feeding
tube._

##### Surgery

Surgery is needed to repair the heart and blood vessels. This is usually done
in the first few months of life. Options for repair depend on how sick the
child is and the specific structure of the defect. The goal of the surgery to
repair truncus arteriosus is to create a separate flow of oxygen-poor blood to
the lungs and oxygen-rich blood to the body. Usually, surgery to repair this
defect involves the following steps:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Close the hole between the bottom chambers of the heart (ventricular septal defect) usually with a patch.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Use the original single blood vessel to create a new aorta to carry oxygen-rich blood from the left ventricle out to the body.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Use an artificial tube (conduit) with an artificial valve to connect the right ventricle to the arteries going to the lungs in order to carry oxygen-poor blood to the lungs.

Most babies with truncus arteriosus survive the surgical repair, but may need
more surgery or other procedures as they get older. For example, the
artificial tube doesn't grow, so it will need to be replaced as the child
grows. There also may be blockages to blood flow which may need to be
relieved, or problems with the truncal valve. Thus, a person born with truncus
arteriosus will need regular follow-up visits with a cardiologist (a heart
doctor) to monitor their progress and avoid complications or other health
problems.

### Reference

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. Cara T. Mai, Jennifer L. Isenburg, Mark A. Canfield, Robert E. Meyer, Adolfo Correa, Clinton J. Alverson, Philip J. Lupo, Tiffany Riehle‐Colarusso, Sook Ja Cho, Deepa Aggarwal, Russell S. Kirby.  National population‐based estimates for major birth defects, 2010-2014\. BDR Oct 2019.

##### Truncus arteriosus

![Truncus
arteriosus](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/truncus_arteriosus-575px.jpg)

The images are in the public domain and thus free of any copyright
restrictions. As a matter of courtesy we request that the content provider
(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center on Birth Defects
and Developmental Disabilities) be credited and notified in any public or
private usage of this image.

Close

##### Normal Heart

![Normal Heart](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/normal-heart-550px.jpg)

The images are in the public domain and thus free of any copyright
restrictions. As a matter of courtesy we request that the content provider
(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center on Birth Defects
and Developmental Disabilities) be credited and notified in any public or
private usage of this image.

Close

Page last reviewed: November 12, 2019

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Congenital Heart Defects Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What are CHDsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How the Heart Works
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Critical Congenital Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Screening
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Current Research Activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Information for Healthcare Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Specific Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Atrial Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Atrioventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Coarctation of the Aorta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * D-Transposition of the Great Arteries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pulmonary Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tetralogy of Fallot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Return
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tricuspid Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Truncus Arteriosus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Living with a CHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tracking & Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Living with a Heart Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Free Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tracking and Research Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CHD Tracking and Research Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 10 Years of Improving Understanding of CHDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Multimedia and Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * A Heart-To-Heart Chat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Real Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Links to Other Resources

Information For…

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policy Makers



**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

