

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Folic Acid

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Folic Acid Helps Prevent Some Birth Defects

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

**Learn how to get healthy before and during pregnancy to increase your
chances of having a healthy baby. Plan ahead by getting 400 micrograms (mcg)
of folic acid each day.**

![African american woman eating cereals, raspberries and blueberries with a
happy face standing and smiling with a confident smile showing
teeth](/ncbddd/folicacid/images/woman-eating-cerial-w-folic-acid.jpg)

Folic acid is an important part of planning for a healthy pregnancy. CDC urges
all women of reproductive age consume 400 mcg of folic acid each day, in
addition to consuming food with folate from a varied diet, to help prevent
some major birth defects of the baby's brain (known as neural tube defects).
The two most common types of neural tube defects are anencephaly and spina
bifida. Anencephaly is a serious birth defect in which parts of a baby's brain
and skull do not form correctly. Babies born with anencephaly cannot survive.
Spina bifida is a serious birth defect in which a baby's spine does not
develop correctly and can result in some severe physical disabilities. All
women, but especially those who might become pregnant, need 400 mcg of folic
acid every day.

### Do I need folic acid?

Yes! Every woman needs to get 400 mcg of folic acid each day, in addition to
consuming food with folate from a varied diet, even if she does not plan on
becoming pregnant. Our bodies use folic acid to make new cells like the skin,
hair, and nails. Start a healthy habit today by getting 400 mcg of folic acid
every day.

### Why should I start taking folic acid now?

![Young beautiful hispanic woman at home](/ncbddd/folicacid/images/woman-
taking-folic-acid.jpg)

All women need 400 micrograms (mcg) of folic acid every day.

Neural tube defects (like anencephaly and spina bifida) happen in the first
few weeks of pregnancy; often before a woman finds out she's pregnant. Also,
almost half of all pregnancies in the United States are unintended. These are
two reasons why it is important for all women who could become pregnant to be
sure to get 400 mcg of folic acid every day, even if they aren't actively
planning a pregnancy any time soon. By the time a woman realizes she's
pregnant, it might be too late to prevent these birth defects. Plan ahead!
Starting today is the best option.

### How do I get folic acid?

An easy way to be sure you're getting enough folic acid is to **take a daily
vitamin with 400 mcg of folic acid in it** (most vitamins contain the
recommended daily amount of 400 mcg of folic acid women need). If taking a
vitamin bothers your stomach, try taking it with meals or just before bed. If
you have trouble taking pills, you can try a chewable vitamin. Also, be sure
to take it with a full glass of water.

Folic acid is added to foods such as enriched breads, pastas, rice, cereals,
and corn masa flour. Corn masa flour is used to make foods such as corn chips,
tortillas, tamales, and taco shells. Check the nutrition label on food
packaging to see if it contains folic acid. **A serving of some cereals
contains 100% of the folic acid that you need each day.**

You can also **eat a diet rich in folate**. Folate can be found in foods like
beans, peas, and lentils; oranges and orange juice; asparagus and broccoli;
and dark leafy green vegetables such as spinach and mustard greens. However,
it is very difficult for most women to get the recommended daily amount of
folate through food alone.1

Taking more than the recommended 400 mcg of folic acid each day is not
necessarily more effective in preventing neural tube defects. Only do so if a
doctor recommends taking more per day due to other health conditions.

### Our Work

Smoothie Recipe

media iconLow Resolution Video

Give your vitamin intake a boast by enjoying this healthy smoothie!

CDC's National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (NCBDDD)
has made a substantial contribution to neural tube defects prevention in the
United States over the past two decades and has led the way in establishing
that every woman who can become pregnant should consume 400 mcg of folic acid
daily to help prevent defects of the brain and spine.

Building on CDC's expertise and experience in birth defects prevention, NCBDDD
aims to increase folic acid intake among women of reproductive age to help
reduce the more than 300,000 neural tube defects that occur worldwide each
year. CDC's global effort, Birth Defects COUNT (Countries and Organizations
United for Neural Tube Defects Prevention), works to significantly reduce
death and lifelong disability resulting from these devastating birth defects.
Through Birth Defects COUNT, CDC provides scientific and programmatic
expertise to expand neural tube defects prevention efforts and strengthen the
ability to track rates of birth defects worldwide. These efforts can help
prevent approximately 150,000-210,000 neural tube defects each year in low-
and middle-resource countries.

### Resources for Healthcare Professionals

CDC has English- and Spanish-language folic acid educational materials for
healthcare professionals that can be downloaded or ordered for free. Visit our
website today to get your educational materials!

### More Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC's Folic Acid Homepage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questions About Folic Acid
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC's Folic Acid Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 5 Ways to Lower the Risk of Neural Tube Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC's Birth Defects Homepage

### References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. National Institutes of Health. (2018 October 4 Published). _Folate_. Retrieved from Folate Fact Sheet for Health Professionalsexternal icon Accessed 26 November, 2018.

Page last reviewed: January 2, 2020

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention

home Folic Acid Homepage

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Basics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Free Materials & Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Buttons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Quiz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * General Information About Neural Tube Defects, Folic Acid, and Folate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Folic Acid Safety, Interactions, and Effects on Other Outcomes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Folic Acid and Its Link to Other Health Outcomes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Folic Acid Fortification and Supplementation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Neural Tube Defects Surveillance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * References
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Birth Defects COUNT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MTHFR Gene and Folic Acidplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Consuming enough folate helps prevent neural tube defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Folic Acid Helps Prevent Some Birth Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Partners

#### Information For…

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policy Makers

![Flu and disabilities button](/ncbddd/local/feature_images/flu_badge_150.gif)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

