

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Birth Defects

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Birth Defects Tracking in Rhode Island

Minus

Related Pages

### Rhode Island Birth Defects Program

![1 in 21 babies born in Rhode Island has a major birth
defect.](/ncbddd/birthdefects/states/images/infographic-ri-notext.jpg)

1 in 21 babies born in Rhode Island has a major birth defect.

The Rhode Island Birth Defects Program (RIBDP) is essential for understanding
the impact of birth defects in the state. The program identifies babies and
children with birth defects and assures that these children receive the health
services they need in a timely manner.

### Common. Costly. Critical.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Of the 10,500 babies born in Rhode Island each year, about 350 babies (1 in 30) are born with a birth defect.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Birth defects are costly - hospital costs for the treatment of birth defects are more than $2.5 billion each year in the United States.  Between 2010 and 2012, total hospital costs for newborns with a birth defect in Rhode Island were about $108 million, which translates to $77,900 per newborn with a birth defect. Hospital costs for newborns without a birth defect were about $12,480.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Babies born with a birth defect are more likely to die before their first birthday, compared to babies born without a birth defect. Among the 100 Rhode Island infants who died during 2014-2015, 8 (8%) of those deaths were due to a birth defect.

### About the Program

![Baby crawling in blankets.](/ncbddd/birthdefects/states/images/ri-2.jpg)

The RIBDP is a system that tracks the number of babies born with birth defects
each year and tries to understand what causes birth defects. One of 14 birth
defects programs that receive a grant funded by CDC's National Center on Birth
Defects and Developmental Disabilities, the RIBDP, monitors about 10,500
babies born in Rhode Island each year.

The program works closely with healthcare providers, community partners, and
families to improve the services available to children with birth defects, as
well as develop strategies to help mothers reduce their chance of having a
baby with a birth defect. RIBDP also works with the CDC's National Center on
Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities, the National Birth Defects
Prevention Network and the New England Birth Defects Consortium. Some of
RIBDP's partners are March of Dimes-RI/Southeast, MA Market, Women and Infants
Hospital, Hasbro Children's Hospital, RI Parent Information Network, Family
Voices of RI, Down Syndrome Society of RI, and the RI Early Intervention
Program, and Planned Parenthood of Southeast New England.

The RIBDP works to:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Identify children in Rhode Island up to age five who have a birth defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Understand who is at risk in order to develop strategies to help reduce birth defects and address issues of burden and disparity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Connect families of babies with a birth defect with local resources and services on a timely basis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Develop preventive and educational strategies that target women who are at increased risk for having a baby with a birth defect

### Program in Action

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Promotes folic acid:** Through a collaboration with the Rhode Island Family Planning Program, multivitamins containing folic acid have been distributed to over 1,000 women. These multivitamins can help prevent some serious birth defects of the brain and spine.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Improves birth defects tracking:** In Rhode Island, birth defects are a reportable condition. The RIBDP has developed an online reporting system for physicians, pediatric practices, and laboratories to report birth defects to the RIBDP. This allows the RIBDP to track birth defects across the state.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Disseminates data:** The RIBDP shares information with healthcare providers, policy makers, community organizations, and families to increase awareness about birth defects.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Educates healthcare professionals:** January is National Birth Defects Prevention Month. During this month, RIBDP coordinates with the March of Dimes and Children's Hospital to schedule presentations for pediatric healthcare providers that bring attention to birth defects. Community partners and families are also invited to participate in these presentations.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Refers to services:** The RIBDP wants to make sure that families of children with birth defects are able to receive the referrals and services they need. Families of children with birth defects can fill out forms, which are condition-specific, to tell RIBDP about the medical, developmental, educational, and support services they received. RIBDP continually works to fill gaps in family support referrals and services that are identified through this process.

### Making a Difference

_" The Rhode Island Department of Health Birth Defects Program has been
instrumental in helping us track the care of our patients in the craniofacial
program. Their commitment to careful data collection allows us to monitor
referrals and improve comprehensive care for these children."_

-- Helena Taylor, MD, PhD, Chief of Craniofacial Surgery, Rhode Island
Hospital and Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery, Brown University Warren
Alpert Medical School

### More Information

For more information on the Rhode Island Birth Defects Program, visit the
their websiteexternal icon or email samara.viner-brown@health.ri.gov.



Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State-Based Tracking Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research and Tracking Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Family Health History and Genetics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Developmental Disabilities

Page last reviewed: November 1, 2018

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Birth Defects Homepage

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What are Birth Defects?plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventing Birth Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 5 Ways to Lower the Risk of Neural Tube Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Specific Birth Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Anophthalmia / Microphthalmia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Anotia / Microtia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cleft Lip / Cleft Palate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Congenital Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Atrial Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Atrioventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Coarctation of the Aorta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * D-Transposition of the Great Arteries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pulmonary Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tetralogy of Fallot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Return
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tricuspid Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Truncus Arteriosus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Craniosynostosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diaphragmatic Hernia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Down Syndromeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Growth Charts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Esophageal Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gastroschisis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hypospadias
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Microcephaly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Neural tube defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Anencephaly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Encephalocele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Spina Bifida
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Omphalocele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Upper and Lower Limb Reduction Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research & Trackingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MACDP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State-based Trackingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Arizona
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Colorado
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Florida
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Illinois
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Kentucky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Michigan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Minnesota
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * New Jersey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Oklahoma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Oregon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Puerto Rico
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Rhode Island
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Texas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Utah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CBDRPplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * NBDPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * BD-STEPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Research Tools and Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Down Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthy Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Folic Acid and Birth Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pregnant? Donât Smoke!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * World Birth Defects Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Materials & Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Coloring Pages
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Folic Acid and You
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevent to Protect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Make a PACT for Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Birth Defects are Common, Costly, and Critical
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos & Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Buttonsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Best for You. Best for Baby.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevent to Protect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * PACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Quiz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * BD Prevention Monthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Real Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cleft Lip and Palate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clubfoot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Craniosynostosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Down Syndromeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Meganâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Calebâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Bryton and Fenixâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Keatonâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Markâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Eye Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fetal Alcohol Syndrome Disorders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gastroschisis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Coarctation of the Aorta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hypoplastic left heart syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tetralogy of Fallot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Other types of heart defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Omphalocele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Spina Bifidaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Randi, Karen, & Robert
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Nikiaâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Dailyâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Eliâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Elleyâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Katieâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zacharyâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Bethâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Henryâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Reneeâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Clarkâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Anifaâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Share Your Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Information for Healthcare Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Information for Familiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Finding Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Health Care Providerâs Role
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Links to Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDCâs Work

![Zika and Pregnancy Button](/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/button-zika-
preg-180px.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

