

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Congenital Heart Defects (CHDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Facts about Pulmonary Atresia

English (US)

Minus

Related Pages

![Pulmonary Atresia with Intact Ventricular
Septum](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/PulmonaryAtresia-intact-250px.jpg)

Click here to view a larger image

![Normal Heart](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/normal-heart-sm.jpg)

Click here to view a larger image

Pulmonary atresia is a birth defect (pronounced PULL-mun-airy ah-TREE-sha) of
the heart where the valve that controls blood flow from the heart to the lungs
doesn't form at all. In babies with this defect, blood has trouble flowing to
the lungs to pick up oxygen for the body.

### What is Pulmonary Atresia?

![Severe TOF / Pulmonary
Atresia](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/PulmonaryAtresia-TOF-250px.jpg)

Click here to view a larger image

Pulmonary atresia is a birth defect of the pulmonary valve, which is the valve
that controls blood flow from the right ventricle (lower right chamber of the
heart) to the main pulmonary artery (the blood vessel that carries blood from
the heart to the lungs). Pulmonary atresia is when this valve didn't form at
all, and no blood can go from the right ventricle of the heart out to the
lungs. Because a baby with pulmonary atresia may need surgery or other
procedures soon after birth, this birth defect is considered a critical
congenital heart defect (critical CHD). Congenital means present at birth.

In a baby without a congenital heart defect, the right side of the heart pumps
oxygen-poor blood from the heart to the lungs through the pulmonary artery.
The blood that comes back from the lungs is oxygen-rich and can then be pumped
to the rest of the body. In babies with pulmonary atresia, the pulmonary valve
that usually controls the blood flowing through the pulmonary artery is not
formed, so blood is unable to get directly from the right ventricle to the
lungs.

In pulmonary atresia, since blood cannot directly flow from the right
ventricle of the heart out to the pulmonary artery, blood must use other
routes to bypass the unformed pulmonary valve. The foramen ovale, a natural
opening between the right and left upper chambers of the heart during
pregnancy that usually closes after the baby is born, often remains open to
allow blood flow to the lungs. Additionally, doctors may give medicine to the
baby to keep the baby's _patent ductus arteriosus_ open after the baby's
birth. The patent ductus arteriosus is the blood vessel that allows blood to
move around the baby's lungs before the baby is born and it also usually
closes after birth.

Learn more about how the heart works »

### Types of Pulmonary Atresia

There are typically two types of pulmonary atresia, according to whether or
not a baby also has a ventricular septal defect (a hole in the wall that
separates the two lower chambers, or ventricles, of the heart):

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Pulmonary atresia with an intact ventricular septum:** In this form of pulmonary atresia, the wall, or septum, between the ventricles remains complete and intact. During pregnancy when the heart is developing, very little blood flows into or out of the right ventricle (RV), and therefore the RV doesn't fully develop and remains very small. If the RV is under-developed, the heart can have problems pumping blood to the lungs and the body. The artery which usually carries blood out of the right ventricle, the main pulmonary artery (MPA), remains very small, since the pulmonary valve (PV) doesn't form.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Pulmonary atresia with a ventricular septal defect:** In this form of pulmonary atresia, a ventricular septal defect (VSD) allows blood to flow into and out of the right ventricle (RV). Therefore, blood flowing into the RV can help the ventricle develop during pregnancy, so it is typically not as small as in pulmonary atresia with an intact ventricular septum. Pulmonary atresia with a VSD is similar to another condition called tetralogy of Fallot. However, in tetralogy of Fallot, the pulmonary valve (PV) does form, although it is small and blood has trouble flowing through it - this is called pulmonary valve stenosis. Thus, pulmonary atresia with a VSD is like a very severe form of tetralogy of Fallot.

### Occurrence

A 2019 study using 2010-2014 data from birth defects surveillance systems
across the United States, researchers estimated that each year about 550
babies in the United States are born with pulmonary atresia. In other words,
about 1 in every 7,100 babies born in the United States each year are born
with pulmonary atresia.

### Causes and Risk Factors

The causes of heart defects, such as pulmonary atresia, among most babies are
unknown. Some babies have heart defects because of changes in their _genes_ or
_chromosomes_. Heart defects also are thought to be caused by a combination of
genes and other factors, such as the things the mother comes in contact with
in the environment, or what the mother eats or drinks, or certain medicines
she uses.

Read more about CDC's work on causes and risk factors »

### Diagnosis

Pulmonary atresia may be diagnosed during pregnancy or soon after a baby is
born.

##### During Pregnancy

During pregnancy, there are screening tests (also called prenatal tests) to
check for birth defects and other conditions. Pulmonary atresia might be seen
during an ultrasound (which creates pictures of the body). Some findings from
the ultrasound may make the healthcare provider suspect a baby may have
pulmonary atresia. If so, the healthcare provider can request a fetal
_echocardiogram_ to confirm the diagnosis. A fetal echocardiogram is an
ultrasound specifically of the baby's heart and major blood vessels that is
performed during the pregnancy. This test can show problems with the structure
of the heart and how well the heart is working.

##### After the Baby is Born

Babies born with pulmonary atresia will show symptoms at birth or very soon
afterwards. They may have a bluish looking skin color, called cyanosis,
because their blood doesn't carry enough oxygen. Infants with pulmonary
atresia can have additional symptoms such as:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Problems breathing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ashen or bluish skin color
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Poor feeding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Extreme sleepiness

During a physical examination, a doctor can see the symptoms, such as bluish
skin or problems breathing. Using a stethoscope, a doctor will check for a
heart murmur (an abnormal "whooshing" sound caused by blood not flowing
properly). However, it is not uncommon for a heart murmur to be absent right
at birth.

If a doctor suspects that there might be a problem, the doctor can request one
or more tests to confirm the diagnosis of pulmonary atresia. The most common
test is an _echocardiogram_. This test is an ultrasound of the baby's heart
that can show problems with the structure of the heart, like holes in the
walls between the chambers, and any irregular blood flow. Cardiac
catheterization (inserting a thin tube into a blood vessel and guiding it to
the heart) also can confirm the diagnosis by looking at the inside of the
heart and measuring the blood pressure and oxygen levels. An electrocardiogram
(EKG), which measures the electrical activity of the heart, and other medical
tests may also be used to make the diagnosis.

Pulmonary atresia is a critical congenital heart defect (critical CHD) that
may be detected with newborn screening using pulse oximetry (also known as
pulse ox). Pulse oximetry is a simple bedside test to estimate the amount of
oxygen in a baby's blood. Low levels of oxygen in the blood can be a sign of a
critical CHD. Newborn screening using pulse oximetry can identify some infants
with a critical CHD, like pulmonary atresia, before they show any symptoms.

### Treatments

Most babies with pulmonary atresia will need medication to keep the ductus
arteriosus open after birth. Keeping this blood vessel open will help with
blood flow to the lungs until the pulmonary valve can be repaired.

Treatment for pulmonary atresia depends on its severity.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * In some cases, blood flow can be improved by using cardiac catheterization (inserting a thin tube into a blood vessel and guiding it to the heart). During this procedure, doctors can expand the valve using a balloon or they may need to place a stent (a small tube) to keep the ductus arteriosus open.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * In most cases of pulmonary atresia, a baby may need surgery soon after birth. During surgery, doctors widen or replace the pulmonary valve and enlarge the passage to the pulmonary artery. If a baby has a ventricular septal defect, the doctor also will place a patch over the ventricular septal defect to close the hole between the two lower chambers of the heart. These actions will improve blood flow to the lungs and the rest of the body. If a baby with pulmonary atresia has an underdeveloped right ventricle, he or she might need staged surgical procedures, similar to surgical repairs for hypoplastic left heart syndrome.

Most babies with pulmonary atresia will need regular follow-up visits with a
cardiologist (a heart doctor) to monitor their progress and check for other
health conditions that might develop as they get older. As adults, they may
need more surgery or medical care for other possible problems.

### References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. Cara T. Mai, Jennifer L. Isenburg, Mark A. Canfield, Robert E. Meyer, Adolfo Correa, Clinton J. Alverson, Philip J. Lupo, Tiffany Riehle‐Colarusso, Sook Ja Cho, Deepa Aggarwal, Russell S. Kirby.  National population‐based estimates for major birth defects, 2010-2014\. BDR Oct 2019.

##### Pulmonary Atresia with Intact Ventricular Septum

![Hypoplastic Left Heart
Syndrome](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/PulmonaryAtresia-intact-600px.jpg)

The images are in the public domain and thus free of any copyright
restrictions. As a matter of courtesy we request that the content provider
(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center on Birth Defects
and Developmental Disabilities) be credited and notified in any public or
private usage of this image.

Close

##### Normal Heart

![Normal Heart](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/normal-heart-550px.jpg)

The images are in the public domain and thus free of any copyright
restrictions. As a matter of courtesy we request that the content provider
(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center on Birth Defects
and Developmental Disabilities) be credited and notified in any public or
private usage of this image.

Close

##### TOF / Pulmonary Atresia

![Hypoplastic Left Heart
Syndrome](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/PulmonaryAtresia-TOF-600px.jpg)

The images are in the public domain and thus free of any copyright
restrictions. As a matter of courtesy we request that the content provider
(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center on Birth Defects
and Developmental Disabilities) be credited and notified in any public or
private usage of this image.

Close

Page last reviewed: November 12, 2019

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Congenital Heart Defects Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What are CHDsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How the Heart Works
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Critical Congenital Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Screening
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Current Research Activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Information for Healthcare Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Specific Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Atrial Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Atrioventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Coarctation of the Aorta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * D-Transposition of the Great Arteries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pulmonary Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tetralogy of Fallot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Return
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tricuspid Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Truncus Arteriosus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Living with a CHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tracking & Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Living with a Heart Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Free Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tracking and Research Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CHD Tracking and Research Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 10 Years of Improving Understanding of CHDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Multimedia and Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * A Heart-To-Heart Chat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Real Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Links to Other Resources

Information For…

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policy Makers



**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

