

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Birth Defects

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Down Syndrome

Minus

Related Pages

![Baby with Down syndrome](/ncbddd/birthdefects/features/images/down-
syndrome_456px.jpg)

**Down syndrome is a condition some babies are born with and have the rest of
their lives. Even though people with Down syndrome might act and look similar,
each person has different talents and the ability to thrive. Learn about Down
syndrome and about Mark, an adult living with the condition. You can also
learn what CDC is doing to improve the lives of people with Down syndrome.**

### What is Down Syndrome?

People with Down syndrome are born with an extra chromosome. Chromosomes are
small "packages" of genes in all cells of the body. Genes are the body's
instruction manual, telling each of the cells what to do. Genes shape a
person's traits such as eye color, blood type, and risk of disease. Genes also
determine how a baby's body forms during pregnancy and how the baby 's body
functions as it grows in the womb and after birth. Typically, a baby is born
with 46 chromosomes. Babies with Down syndrome have an extra copy of one of
these chromosomes, chromosome 21, and thus they have an extra copy of all of
the genes packaged in chromosome 21. The extra genes cause all of the features
of Down syndrome. A medical term for having an extra copy of a chromosome is
"trisomy," so another name for Down syndrome is trisomy 21.

### How Many Babies Are Born with Down Syndrome?

About 1 in 700 babies are born with Down syndrome in the United States.1
That's about 6,000 babies with Down syndrome born in the United States each
year.

![Mark and Sonja](/ncbddd/birthdefects/features/images/down-
syndrome_a350px.jpg)

Mark leads a happy and worthwhile life, proud of his work and secure in the
love of his family and friends.

### Mark's Story

Employed, living independently, an active member of his community--it would
have been hard to imagine that these words would ever describe Mark when he
was born with Down syndrome in 1960. The doctor's advice at the time was
typical of the era. "Institutionalize him," he said. "It's best for your
family." Mark's parents ignored that advice, took Mark home--and found a new
doctor.

Mark's family is justifiably proud of all that Mark has accomplished since
then. The small town in Minnesota that Mark lived in didn't have any
educational opportunities to offer him, so initially he had to attend school
in another town. Over time, the local school system was able to accommodate
him. By the time Mark reached high school, he was included in some regular
classes and participated in extracurricular activities, even serving as
manager for the wrestling team--something that was practically unheard of at
the time for a student with an intellectual disability. pdf icon[289 KB] After
high school, Mark moved into a brand new group home in town. Several years
later, he moved into his own apartment. He has been living independently ever
since, and working steadily at a local fast-food restaurant.

Mark leads a happy and worthwhile life, proud of his work and secure in the
love of his family and friends. Every day, he tries to do his best in
everything he doe--which, of course, inspires everyone around him to try to do
the same.

**CDC thanks Mark and his family for sharing this personal story.**

### CDC Activities to Improve the Lives of People with Down Syndrome

CDC's National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (NCBDDD)
works with partners to learn about Down syndrome. We track information about
people with Down syndrome and do research to improve the lives of people with
Down syndrome and their families.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Tracking:** Tracking where and when individuals with Down syndrome are born gives us important clues about opportunities to improve their health outcomes and help plan for services for them and their families.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Research:** To understand the impact that Down syndrome has on children and their families, CDC and its partners conduct studies on health service use, survival, and other conditions that people with Down syndrome might have, such as autism or Alzheimer disease.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Improving the lives of individuals with Down syndrome:** CDC provided funding to develop _Brighter Tomorrows,_ external icon an initiative to educate healthcare providers on how to counsel families of children with Down syndrome.

More Information

To learn more about Down syndrome, please visit

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facts about Down Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data and Statistics: Occurrence of Down Syndrome

References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. Parker SE, Mai CT, Canfield MA, Rickard R, Wang Y, Meyer RE, Anderson P, Mason, CA, Collins JS, Kirby RS, Correa A, National Birth Defects Prevention Network. Updated national birth prevalence estimates for selected birth defects in the United States, 2004-2006. Birth Defects Res A Clin Mol Teratol. 2010;88:1008-16.

Page last reviewed: January 15, 2020

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Birth Defects Homepage

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What are Birth Defects?plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventing Birth Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 5 Ways to Lower the Risk of Neural Tube Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Specific Birth Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Anophthalmia / Microphthalmia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Anotia / Microtia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cleft Lip / Cleft Palate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Congenital Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Atrial Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Atrioventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Coarctation of the Aorta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * D-Transposition of the Great Arteries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pulmonary Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tetralogy of Fallot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Return
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tricuspid Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Truncus Arteriosus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Craniosynostosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diaphragmatic Hernia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Down Syndromeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Growth Charts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Esophageal Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gastroschisis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hypospadias
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Microcephaly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Neural tube defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Anencephaly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Encephalocele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Spina Bifida
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Omphalocele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Upper and Lower Limb Reduction Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research & Trackingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MACDP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State-based Trackingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Arizona
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Colorado
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Florida
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Illinois
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Kentucky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Michigan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Minnesota
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * New Jersey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Oklahoma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Oregon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Puerto Rico
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Rhode Island
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Texas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Utah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CBDRPplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * NBDPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * BD-STEPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Research Tools and Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Down Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthy Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Folic Acid and Birth Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pregnant? Donât Smoke!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * World Birth Defects Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Materials & Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Coloring Pages
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Folic Acid and You
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevent to Protect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Make a PACT for Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Birth Defects are Common, Costly, and Critical
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos & Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Buttonsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Best for You. Best for Baby.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevent to Protect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * PACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Quiz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * BD Prevention Monthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Real Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cleft Lip and Palate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clubfoot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Craniosynostosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Down Syndromeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Meganâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Calebâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Bryton and Fenixâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Keatonâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Markâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Eye Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fetal Alcohol Syndrome Disorders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gastroschisis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Coarctation of the Aorta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hypoplastic left heart syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tetralogy of Fallot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Other types of heart defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Omphalocele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Spina Bifidaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Randi, Karen, & Robert
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Nikiaâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Dailyâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Eliâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Elleyâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Katieâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zacharyâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Bethâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Henryâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Reneeâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Clarkâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Anifaâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Share Your Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Information for Healthcare Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Information for Familiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Finding Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Health Care Providerâs Role
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Links to Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDCâs Work

![Zika and Pregnancy Button](/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/button-zika-
preg-180px.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

