

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Birth Defects

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Web Buttons about Birth Defects and Prevention

Minus

Related Pages

CDC has created buttons to help increase awareness of birth defects. You can
help by posting a button to your website, blog, or social networking site
(e.g., Facebook page).

![Collage of ](/ncbddd/birthdefects/buttons/best-for/best-for-collage.gif)

##### Best for You. Best for Your Baby.

See available buttons and download them here »

* * *

![Prevent to Protect Button
collage](/ncbddd/birthdefects/buttons/prevent2protect/prevent2protect-buttons-
collage.png)

##### Prevent to Protect

See available buttons and download them here »

* * *



![PACT buttons collage: Make a PACT to get healthy before and during pregnancy
](/ncbddd/birthdefects/buttons/pact/PACT-buttons-collage.jpg)

##### Make a **PACT** for prevention

See available sizes and download them here »

* * *



![1 in every 33 babies is born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce
that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatement and living with
birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects.](/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_03_200x200.jpg)

##### 1 in every 33 babies

Available in the following sizes:  
(Select a size below to get the code)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 120×240
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 150×125
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 180×150
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 200×200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 300×250
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 355×135
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 580×580
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 600×600

* * *

![Every 4.5 minutes a baby is born with a birth defect. We want to help you
reduce that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatment and living
with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects](/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/birth_defects_prevention_month_buttons_02_200x200.jpg)

##### Every 4.5 minutes

Available in the following sizes:  
(Select a size below to get the code)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 120×240
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 150×125
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 180×150
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 200×200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 300×250
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 355×135
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 580×580
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 600×600

* * *



![Birth defects affect us all. What effect will you have on birth defects?
Learn more about birth defects visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects](/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_01_200x200.jpg)

##### Birth defects affect us all

Available in the following sizes:  
(Select a size below to get the code)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 120×240
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 150×125
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 180×150
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 200×200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 300×250
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 355×135
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 580×580
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 600×600

* * *



![¡Cada 4 minutos y medio nace un bebé con un defecto congénito! Deseamos
ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo. Infórmese sobre en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_01_200x200.jpg)

##### Every 4.5 minutes (in Spanish)

Available in the following sizes:  
(Select a size below to get the code)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 120×240
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 150×125
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 180×150
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 200×200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 300×250
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 355×135
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 580×580
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 600×600

* * *



![1 de cada 33 bebés nace con un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a
reducir este riesgo. Infórmese sobre en en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_02_200x200.jpg)

##### 1 in every 33 babies (in Spanish)

Available in the following sizes:  
(Select a size below to get the code)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 120×240
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 150×125
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 180×150
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 200×200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 300×250
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 355×135
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 580×580
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 600×600

* * *



![Each year, total hospital costs for U.S. children and adults with birth
defects exceed $2.6 billion. To learn more visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects](/ncbddd/birthdefects/buttons/Thumb-
Birth_Defects_Prev_Month_button_Costly_300x250.jpg)

##### Each year, total hospital costs for U.S. children and adults with birth
defects exceed $2.6 billion.

Available in the following sizes:  
(Select a size below to get the code)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 300×250
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 580×580

* * *



![Birth Defects causs 1 in every 5 deaths during first year of
life.](/ncbddd/birthdefects/buttons/Thumb-
Birth_Defects_Prev_Month_button_Critical_300x250.jpg)

##### Birth defects cause 1 in every 5 deaths during the first year of life.

Available in the following sizes:  
(Select a size below to get the code)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 300×250
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 580×580

 Top of Page

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Birth defects affect us all. What effect will you have on birth defects?
Learn more about birth defects visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_01_120x240.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Birth defects affect us all.
What effect will you have on birth defects? Learn more about birth defects
visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_01_120x240.jpg"
style="width:120px; height:240px; border:0px;" alt="Birth defects affect us
all. What effect will you have on birth defects? Learn more about birth
defects visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Birth defects affect us all. What effect will you have on birth defects?
Learn more about birth defects visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_01_150x125.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Birth defects affect us all.
What effect will you have on birth defects? Learn more about birth defects
visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_01_150x125.jpg"
style="width:150px; height:125px; border:0px;" alt="Birth defects affect us
all. What effect will you have on birth defects? Learn more about birth
defects visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Birth defects affect us all. What effect will you have on birth defects?
Learn more about birth defects visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_01_180x150.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Birth defects affect us all.
What effect will you have on birth defects? Learn more about birth defects
visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_01_180x150.jpg"
style="width:180px; height:150px; border:0px;" alt="Birth defects affect us
all. What effect will you have on birth defects? Learn more about birth
defects visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Birth defects affect us all. What effect will you have on birth defects?
Learn more about birth defects visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_01_200x200.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Birth defects affect us all.
What effect will you have on birth defects? Learn more about birth defects
visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_01_200x200.jpg"
style="width:200px; height:200px; border:0px;" alt="Birth defects affect us
all. What effect will you have on birth defects? Learn more about birth
defects visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Birth defects affect us all. What effect will you have on birth defects?
Learn more about birth defects visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_01_300x250.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Birth defects affect us all.
What effect will you have on birth defects? Learn more about birth defects
visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_01_300x250.jpg"
style="width:300px; height:250px; border:0px;" alt="Birth defects affect us
all. What effect will you have on birth defects? Learn more about birth
defects visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Birth defects affect us all. What effect will you have on birth defects?
Learn more about birth defects visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_01_355x135.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Birth defects affect us all.
What effect will you have on birth defects? Learn more about birth defects
visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_01_355x135.jpg"
style="width:355px; height:135px; border:0px;" alt="Birth defects affect us
all. What effect will you have on birth defects? Learn more about birth
defects visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Birth defects affect us all. What effect will you have on birth defects?
Learn more about birth defects visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_01_580x580.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Birth defects affect us all.
What effect will you have on birth defects? Learn more about birth defects
visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_01_580x580.jpg"
style="width:580px; height:580px; border:0px;" alt="Birth defects affect us
all. What effect will you have on birth defects? Learn more about birth
defects visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Birth defects affect us all. What effect will you have on birth defects?
Learn more about birth defects visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_01_600x600.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Birth defects affect us all.
What effect will you have on birth defects? Learn more about birth defects
visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_01_600x600.jpg"
style="width:600px; height:600px; border:0px;" alt="Birth defects affect us
all. What effect will you have on birth defects? Learn more about birth
defects visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Every 4.5 minutes a baby is born with a birth defect. We want to help you
reduce that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatment and living
with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_02_120x240.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Every 4.5 minutes a baby is
born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatment and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_02_120x240.jpg"
style="width:120px; height:240px; border:0px;" alt="Every 4.5 minutes a baby
is born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatment and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Every 4.5 minutes a baby is born with a birth defect. We want to help you
reduce that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatment and living
with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_02_150x125.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Every 4.5 minutes a baby is
born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatment and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_02_150x125.jpg"
style="width:150px; height:125px; border:0px;" alt="Every 4.5 minutes a baby
is born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatment and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Every 4.5 minutes a baby is born with a birth defect. We want to help you
reduce that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatment and living
with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_02_180x150.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Every 4.5 minutes a baby is
born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatment and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_02_180x150.jpg"
style="width:180px; height:150px; border:0px;" alt="Every 4.5 minutes a baby
is born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatment and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Every 4.5 minutes a baby is born with a birth defect. We want to help you
reduce that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatment and living
with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_02_200x200.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Every 4.5 minutes a baby is
born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatment and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_02_200x200.jpg"
style="width:200px; height:200px; border:0px;" alt="Every 4.5 minutes a baby
is born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatment and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Every 4.5 minutes a baby is born with a birth defect. We want to help you
reduce that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatment and living
with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_02_300x250.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Every 4.5 minutes a baby is
born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatment and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_02_300x250.jpg"
style="width:300px; height:250px; border:0px;" alt="Every 4.5 minutes a baby
is born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatment and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Every 4.5 minutes a baby is born with a birth defect. We want to help you
reduce that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatment and living
with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_02_355x135.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Every 4.5 minutes a baby is
born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatment and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_02_355x135.jpg"
style="width:355px; height:135px; border:0px;" alt="Every 4.5 minutes a baby
is born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatment and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Every 4.5 minutes a baby is born with a birth defect. We want to help you
reduce that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatment and living
with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_02_580x580.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Every 4.5 minutes a baby is
born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatment and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_02_580x580.jpg"
style="width:580px; height:580px; border:0px;" alt="Every 4.5 minutes a baby
is born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatment and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Every 4.5 minutes a baby is born with a birth defect. We want to help you
reduce that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatment and living
with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_02_600x600.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Every 4.5 minutes a baby is
born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatment and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_02_600x600.jpg"
style="width:600px; height:600px; border:0px;" alt="Every 4.5 minutes a baby
is born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatment and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefect" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![1 in every 33 babies is born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce
that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatement and living with
birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects.](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_03_120x240.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="1 in every 33 babies is born
with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more about
prevention, detection, treatement and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects."><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_03_120x240.jpg"
style="width:120px; height:240px; border:0px;" alt="1 in every 33 babies is
born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatement and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects." /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![1 in every 33 babies is born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce
that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatement and living with
birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects.](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_03_150x125.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="1 in every 33 babies is born
with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more about
prevention, detection, treatement and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects."><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_03_150x125.jpg"
style="width:150px; height:125px; border:0px;" alt="1 in every 33 babies is
born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatement and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects." /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![1 in every 33 babies is born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce
that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatement and living with
birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects.](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_03_180x150.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="1 in every 33 babies is born
with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more about
prevention, detection, treatement and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects."><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_03_180x150.jpg"
style="width:180px; height:150px; border:0px;" alt="1 in every 33 babies is
born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatement and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects." /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![1 in every 33 babies is born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce
that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatement and living with
birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects.](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_03_200x200.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="1 in every 33 babies is born
with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more about
prevention, detection, treatement and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects."><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_03_200x200.jpg"
style="width:200px; height:200px; border:0px;" alt="1 in every 33 babies is
born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatement and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects." /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![1 in every 33 babies is born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce
that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatement and living with
birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects.](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_03_300x250.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="1 in every 33 babies is born
with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more about
prevention, detection, treatement and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects."><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_03_300x250.jpg"
style="width:300px; height:250px; border:0px;" alt="1 in every 33 babies is
born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatement and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects." /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![1 in every 33 babies is born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce
that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatement and living with
birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects.](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_03_355x135.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="1 in every 33 babies is born
with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more about
prevention, detection, treatement and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects."><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_03_355x135.jpg"
style="width:355px; height:135px; border:0px;" alt="1 in every 33 babies is
born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatement and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects." /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![1 in every 33 babies is born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce
that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatement and living with
birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects.](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_03_580x580.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="1 in every 33 babies is born
with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more about
prevention, detection, treatement and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects."><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_03_580x580.jpg"
style="width:580px; height:580px; border:0px;" alt="1 in every 33 babies is
born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatement and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects." /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![1 in every 33 babies is born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce
that risk. Learn more about prevention, detection, treatement and living with
birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects.](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_03_600x600.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="1 in every 33 babies is born
with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more about
prevention, detection, treatement and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects."><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_03_600x600.jpg"
style="width:600px; height:600px; border:0px;" alt="1 in every 33 babies is
born with a birth defect. We want to help you reduce that risk. Learn more
about prevention, detection, treatement and living with birth defects at
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects." /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![¡Cada 4 minutos y medio nace un bebé con un defecto congénito! Deseamos
ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo. Infórmese sobre en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_01_120x240.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="¡Cada 4 minutos y medio nace
un bebe con un defecto congenito! Deseamos ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo.
Informese sobre en www.cdc.gov/defectos"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_01_120x240.jpg"
style="width:120px; height:240px; border:0px;" alt="¡Cada 4 minutos y medio
nace un bebe con un defecto congenito! Deseamos ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo.
Informese sobre en www.cdc.gov/defectos" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![¡Cada 4 minutos y medio nace un bebé con un defecto congénito! Deseamos
ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo. Infórmese sobre en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_01_150x125.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="¡Cada 4 minutos y medio nace
un bebe con un defecto congenito! Deseamos ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo.
Informese sobre en www.cdc.gov/defectos"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_01_150x125.jpg"
style="width:150px; height:125px; border:0px;" alt="¡Cada 4 minutos y medio
nace un bebe con un defecto congenito! Deseamos ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo.
Informese sobre en www.cdc.gov/defectos" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![¡Cada 4 minutos y medio nace un bebé con un defecto congénito! Deseamos
ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo. Infórmese sobre en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_01_180x150.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="¡Cada 4 minutos y medio nace
un bebe con un defecto congenito! Deseamos ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo.
Informese sobre en www.cdc.gov/defectos"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_01_180x150.jpg"
style="width:180px; height:150px; border:0px;" alt="¡Cada 4 minutos y medio
nace un bebe con un defecto congenito! Deseamos ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo.
Informese sobre en www.cdc.gov/defectos" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![¡Cada 4 minutos y medio nace un bebé con un defecto congénito! Deseamos
ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo. Infórmese sobre en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_01_200x200.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="¡Cada 4 minutos y medio nace
un bebe con un defecto congenito! Deseamos ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo.
Informese sobre en www.cdc.gov/defectos"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_01_200x200.jpg"
style="width:200px; height:200px; border:0px;" alt="¡Cada 4 minutos y medio
nace un bebe con un defecto congenito! Deseamos ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo.
Informese sobre en www.cdc.gov/defectos" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![¡Cada 4 minutos y medio nace un bebé con un defecto congénito! Deseamos
ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo. Infórmese sobre en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_01_300x250.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="¡Cada 4 minutos y medio nace
un bebe con un defecto congenito! Deseamos ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo.
Informese sobre en www.cdc.gov/defectos"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_01_300x250.jpg"
style="width:300px; height:250px; border:0px;" alt="¡Cada 4 minutos y medio
nace un bebe con un defecto congenito! Deseamos ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo.
Informese sobre en www.cdc.gov/defectos" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![¡Cada 4 minutos y medio nace un bebé con un defecto congénito! Deseamos
ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo. Infórmese sobre en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_01_355x135.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="¡Cada 4 minutos y medio nace
un bebe con un defecto congenito! Deseamos ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo.
Informese sobre en www.cdc.gov/defectos"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_01_355x135.jpg"
style="width:355px; height:135px; border:0px;" alt="¡Cada 4 minutos y medio
nace un bebe con un defecto congenito! Deseamos ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo.
Informese sobre en www.cdc.gov/defectos" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![¡Cada 4 minutos y medio nace un bebé con un defecto congénito! Deseamos
ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo. Infórmese sobre en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_01_580x580.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="¡Cada 4 minutos y medio nace
un bebe con un defecto congenito! Deseamos ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo.
Informese sobre en www.cdc.gov/defectos"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_01_580x580.jpg"
style="width:580px; height:580px; border:0px;" alt="¡Cada 4 minutos y medio
nace un bebe con un defecto congenito! Deseamos ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo.
Informese sobre en www.cdc.gov/defectos" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![¡Cada 4 minutos y medio nace un bebé con un defecto congénito! Deseamos
ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo. Infórmese sobre en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_01_600x600.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="¡Cada 4 minutos y medio nace
un bebe con un defecto congenito! Deseamos ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo.
Informese sobre en www.cdc.gov/defectos"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_01_600x600.jpg"
style="width:600px; height:600px; border:0px;" alt="¡Cada 4 minutos y medio
nace un bebe con un defecto congenito! Deseamos ayudarle a reducir ese riesgo.
Informese sobre en www.cdc.gov/defectos" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![1 de cada 33 bebés nace con un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a
reducir este riesgo. Infórmese sobre en en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_02_120x240.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="1 de cada 33 bebes nace con
un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a reducir este riesgo. Informese
sobre en en www.cdc.gov/defectos"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_02_120x240.jpg"
style="width:120px; height:240px; border:0px;" alt="1 de cada 33 bebes nace
con un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a reducir este riesgo.
Informese sobre en en www.cdc.gov/defectos" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![1 de cada 33 bebés nace con un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a
reducir este riesgo. Infórmese sobre en en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_02_150x125.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="1 de cada 33 bebes nace con
un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a reducir este riesgo. Informese
sobre en en www.cdc.gov/defectos"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_02_150x125.jpg"
style="width:150px; height:125px; border:0px;" alt="1 de cada 33 bebes nace
con un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a reducir este riesgo.
Informese sobre en en www.cdc.gov/defectos" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![1 de cada 33 bebés nace con un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a
reducir este riesgo. Infórmese sobre en en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_02_180x150.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="1 de cada 33 bebes nace con
un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a reducir este riesgo. Informese
sobre en en www.cdc.gov/defectos"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_02_180x150.jpg"
style="width:180px; height:150px; border:0px;" alt="1 de cada 33 bebes nace
con un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a reducir este riesgo.
Informese sobre en en www.cdc.gov/defectos" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![1 de cada 33 bebés nace con un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a
reducir este riesgo. Infórmese sobre en en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_02_200x200.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="1 de cada 33 bebes nace con
un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a reducir este riesgo. Informese
sobre en en www.cdc.gov/defectos"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_02_200x200.jpg"
style="width:200px; height:200px; border:0px;" alt="1 de cada 33 bebes nace
con un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a reducir este riesgo.
Informese sobre en en www.cdc.gov/defectos" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![1 de cada 33 bebés nace con un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a
reducir este riesgo. Infórmese sobre en en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_02_300x250.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="1 de cada 33 bebes nace con
un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a reducir este riesgo. Informese
sobre en en www.cdc.gov/defectos"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_02_300x250.jpg"
style="width:300px; height:250px; border:0px;" alt="1 de cada 33 bebes nace
con un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a reducir este riesgo.
Informese sobre en en www.cdc.gov/defectos" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![1 de cada 33 bebés nace con un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a
reducir este riesgo. Infórmese sobre en en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_02_355x135.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="1 de cada 33 bebes nace con
un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a reducir este riesgo. Informese
sobre en en www.cdc.gov/defectos"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_02_355x135.jpg"
style="width:355px; height:135px; border:0px;" alt="1 de cada 33 bebes nace
con un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a reducir este riesgo.
Informese sobre en en www.cdc.gov/defectos" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![1 de cada 33 bebés nace con un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a
reducir este riesgo. Infórmese sobre en en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_02_580x580.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="1 de cada 33 bebes nace con
un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a reducir este riesgo. Informese
sobre en en www.cdc.gov/defectos"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_02_580x580.jpg"
style="width:580px; height:580px; border:0px;" alt="1 de cada 33 bebes nace
con un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a reducir este riesgo.
Informese sobre en en www.cdc.gov/defectos" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![1 de cada 33 bebés nace con un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a
reducir este riesgo. Infórmese sobre en en
www.cdc.gov/defectos](images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_02_600x600.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="1 de cada 33 bebes nace con
un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a reducir este riesgo. Informese
sobre en en www.cdc.gov/defectos"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/buttons/Birth_Defects_Prevention_Month_buttons_es_02_600x600.jpg"
style="width:600px; height:600px; border:0px;" alt="1 de cada 33 bebes nace
con un defecto de nacimiento. Deseamos ayudarle a reducir este riesgo.
Informese sobre en en www.cdc.gov/defectos" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Each year, total hospital costs for U.S. children and adults with birth
defects exceed $2.6 billion. To learn more visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects](/ncbddd/birthdefects/buttons/birth_defects_prev_month_button_costly_300x250.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Each year, total hospital
costs for U.S. children and adults with birth defects exceed $2.6 billion. To
learn more visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/buttons/birth_defects_prev_month_button_costly_300x250.jpg"
style="width:300px; height:250px; border:0px;" alt="Each year, total hospital
costs for U.S. children and adults with birth defects exceed $2.6 billion. To
learn more visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Each year, total hospital costs for U.S. children and adults with birth
defects exceed $2.6 billion. To learn more visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects](/ncbddd/birthdefects/buttons/birth_defects_prev_month_button_costly_580x580.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Each year, total hospital
costs for U.S. children and adults with birth defects exceed $2.6 billion. To
learn more visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/buttons/birth_defects_prev_month_button_costly_580x580.jpg"
style="width:580px; height:580px; border:0px;" alt="Each year, total hospital
costs for U.S. children and adults with birth defects exceed $2.6 billion. To
learn more visit www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Birth Defects causs 1 in every 5 deaths during first year of life. To learn
more visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects](/ncbddd/birthdefects/buttons/birth_defects_prev_month_button_critical_300x250.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Birth Defects causs 1 in
every 5 deaths during first year of life. To learn more visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/buttons/birth_defects_prev_month_button_critical_300x250.jpg"
style="width:300px; height:250px; border:0px;" alt="Birth Defects causs 1 in
every 5 deaths during first year of life. To learn more visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" /></a>

Close

##### Button Copy Code

Copy the code below and paste it into your site.

![Birth Defects causs 1 in every 5 deaths during first year of life. To learn
more visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects](/ncbddd/birthdefects/buttons/birth_defects_prev_month_button_critical_580x580.jpg)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" title="Birth Defects causs 1 in
every 5 deaths during first year of life. To learn more visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/buttons/birth_defects_prev_month_button_critical_580x580.jpg"
style="width:580px; height:580px; border:0px;" alt="Birth Defects causs 1 in
every 5 deaths during first year of life. To learn more visit
www.cdc.gov/birthdefects" /></a>

Close

Page last reviewed: December 5, 2019

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Birth Defects Homepage

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What are Birth Defects?plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventing Birth Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 5 Ways to Lower the Risk of Neural Tube Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Specific Birth Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Anophthalmia / Microphthalmia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Anotia / Microtia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cleft Lip / Cleft Palate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Congenital Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Atrial Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Atrioventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Coarctation of the Aorta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * D-Transposition of the Great Arteries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pulmonary Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tetralogy of Fallot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Return
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tricuspid Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Truncus Arteriosus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Craniosynostosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diaphragmatic Hernia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Down Syndromeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Growth Charts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Esophageal Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gastroschisis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hypospadias
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Microcephaly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Neural tube defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Anencephaly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Encephalocele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Spina Bifida
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Omphalocele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Upper and Lower Limb Reduction Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research & Trackingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MACDP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State-based Trackingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Arizona
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Colorado
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Florida
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Illinois
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Kentucky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Michigan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Minnesota
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * New Jersey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Oklahoma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Oregon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Puerto Rico
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Rhode Island
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Texas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Utah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CBDRPplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * NBDPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * BD-STEPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Research Tools and Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Down Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthy Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Folic Acid and Birth Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pregnant? Donât Smoke!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * World Birth Defects Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Materials & Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Coloring Pages
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Folic Acid and You
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevent to Protect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Make a PACT for Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Birth Defects are Common, Costly, and Critical
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos & Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Buttonsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Best for You. Best for Baby.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevent to Protect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * PACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Quiz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * BD Prevention Monthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Real Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cleft Lip and Palate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clubfoot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Craniosynostosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Down Syndromeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Meganâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Calebâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Bryton and Fenixâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Keatonâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Markâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Eye Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fetal Alcohol Syndrome Disorders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gastroschisis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Coarctation of the Aorta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hypoplastic left heart syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tetralogy of Fallot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Other types of heart defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Omphalocele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Spina Bifidaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Randi, Karen, & Robert
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Nikiaâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Dailyâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Eliâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Elleyâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Katieâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zacharyâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Bethâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Henryâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Reneeâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Clarkâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Anifaâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Share Your Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Information for Healthcare Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Information for Familiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Finding Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Health Care Providerâs Role
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Links to Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDCâs Work

![Zika and Pregnancy Button](/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/button-zika-
preg-180px.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

