

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Birth Defects

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Real Stories: Living with Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome

Minus

Related Pages

Hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS) is a birth defect that affects normal
blood flow through the heart. As the baby develops during pregnancy, the left
side of the heart does not form correctly. To learn what it's like to live
with this condition or how families are affected, read these real stories from
people living with hypoplastic left heart syndrome.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nick's Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ryan's Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Teagan's Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Caden's Story

### Nick's Story

![Nick at a swimming pool and Nick
older](/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/images/NickM-HLHS-500px.jpg)

**Nick was born with a** **congenital heart defect** **(CHD) that required
multiple surgeries and eventually a heart transplant. His mother shares her
perspective on what it felt like to leave the hospital without her newborn
son, the challenges he has faced growing up, and the need for more research to
better understand the causes of CHDs. Read more below.**

As Susan welcomed the birth of her son Nick, she thought everything seemed
normal. However, as she asked, "Is my baby fine?" the initial smiles
surrounding her quickly changed to whispers and concerned looks. Soon, Nick
was whisked away to specialists in a large children's hospital while Susan was
left behind. Shortly afterward, she was released, leaving with a balloon that
read "It's a boy!" but she held no baby boy in her arms. Susan did not realize
then that the adventure had only begun as tests soon revealed that her baby
had a congenital heart defect.

After Nick had three difficult open heart surgeries, his doctors decided that
he could survive only with a heart transplant. Just before his second
birthday, Nick received his new heart. Although Nick is an adult now and doing
well, he and his parents still worry about transplant rejection and the
future. "I think about the pain and frustration we have been through, and my
hope for other families is that we can find out what causes congenital heart
defects so that we can prevent them," added Susan.

### Ryan's Story - Written by his mom Laura

![Ryan in the hospital and with his mom and
brother](/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/images/Ryan-with-mom-Laura-500px.jpg)

**Laura shares the story of her son, Ryan, who was born with a** **critical
congenital heart defect** **(critical CHD). Ryan 's CCHD went undetected for
the first 24 hours of his life, but fortunately was discovered in time for
immediate treatment. Although Ryan had a rough start, he has grown into a
happy, thriving boy. Read his story below.**

The night after my son, Ryan, was born, I felt like something wasn't right. He
did not cry. He had a hard time feeding. He felt cold. When the pediatrician
found nothing wrong and cleared him to go home, I had an uneasy feeling. But
it wasn't until that first night home, when his legs were bluish in color and
his breathing was labored, that we knew for sure that something was wrong. We
called the paramedics, and when we got to the hospital, the doctors recognized
that something was wrong with his heart. After some more testing, the doctor
came in and very bluntly told us that our beautiful son had a very grave heart
condition called hypoplastic left heart syndrome. Without immediate
intervention, he would die. Suddenly, the room was swirling, and I crumpled to
the floor. All I could think about was how our older son might not see his
little brother again.

Since that day, Ryan has had a number of surgeries, his first one at only five
days old. He slowly got better, but at two years old, he took a turn for the
worse, and we decided to put him on the heart transplant list. While Ryan was
in the intensive care unit (ICU) getting more and more sick, we finally heard
the doctor say those magic words, "We have a potential heart." On the day of
his transplant, my husband happened to get in the elevator with the man
transporting the heart. All he could muster to say was "Take care of my son's
heart."

Ryan has grown up and is doing awesome. He is such a blessing to our family--
we cherish every day with him. It hasn't been easy. There have been many
challenges, like getting insurance to help with all the bills and getting Ryan
the support he needs to reach his milestones. But I would not change a thing.
I want the world for him. I want him to be able to do whatever he wants. And,
he does. He wakes up every day, the happiest kid with no fear.

### Teagan's Story- Written by his mom, Brytten

![Teagan holding a picutre of himself in the
hospital](/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/images/Teagan-holding-
picutre-500px.jpg)

**Teagan was born with a** **critical congenital heart defect** **(CCHD).
His mom shares her experience of how during the first year of life she focused
on keeping Teagan alive. Read his inspiring story below.**

In March of 2008, I gave birth to my second son, a big, beautiful, healthy
baby boy, Teagan. Four days later, I found out that my big, beautiful, healthy
baby boy was not so healthy. Teagan was diagnosed with a congenital heart
defect (CHD)--hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS)--basically, half a heart.
My life as I knew it was over and my life as a Heart Mom began.

It is not the life I dreamed of while he grew in my belly for nine months, but
it is my life nonetheless. Teagan's first year was the hardest year of my life
to date. He had his first of three planned open heart surgeries at seven days
of age. We stayed at the hospital for eight weeks. When I finally brought him
home again he was very fragile, on several medications, needed shots twice a
day, was on oxygen, and had a feeding tube. We were home for a few months and
by the end of July 2008, he was in desperate need of his second planned open
heart surgery and some other procedures. We had a six week hospital stay this
time and returned home shortly after his five month birthday. Our days were
full of medications and tube feeds, oxygen saturation checks, lots of doctors,
home health care specialists, and Early Intervention. We had to do all we
could to stay healthy, so we had to miss out on a lot of family functions and
stayed home a lot. Slowly but surely, I got used to my new normal and life as
a Heart Mom.

Today Teagan likes to tell people, "My heart is happy and strong!" He goes to
preschool, loves to play with (healthy) friends, wrestle with his big brother,
play super heroes, watch his shows, sing the current hits, swim, go on family
vacations and ride his scooter. We are currently waiting for his heart to need
a third planned open heart surgery, and we anticipate an eventual need of a
full heart transplant. Teagan is currently on three medications a day. He is
fed through his g-tube twice a day and the rest of his food he eats by mouth.
We still try really hard to not get sick and we are extra aware of the germs
around us. Teagan's first year of life was about keeping him alive, and now
it's about letting him live! I feel so blessed to be the mother of such an
incredible boy, he is truly a miracle! My life is richer than I ever could
have dreamed of since the day I became a Heart Mom!

### Caden's Story-Written by his mom, Dawn

![Caden in the hospital](/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/images/Caden-in-
Hospital-500px.jpg)

**A birth defect diagnosis during pregnancy can challenge any family. Dawn 's
son, Caden, was diagnosed with a heart defect during her pregnancy. Read below
to see how she approached her pregnancy after the diagnosis and her advice for
other parents.**

My son, Caden, was born with hypoplastic left heart syndrome, a type of
congenital heart defect (CHD). After two previous normal pregnancies, I was
shocked to receive this diagnosis during my 20th week of pregnancy with Caden.
I have to admit, receiving the diagnosis during pregnancy was both a blessing
and a curse. It robbed me of any sort of normal pregnancy. After the
diagnosis, we grieved a lot. Everything we had in our minds about this
pregnancy went away. We had to prepare for a whole new pregnancy. Everything
became about the baby. We had so many ultrasounds and tests to check the
baby's heart.

That said, the diagnosis helped me prepare for what we needed to do. We
researched what the defect was and what the prognosis would be. We tried to
get all the best doctors on our case right from the beginning. We were also
able to prepare our other children--we had to tell them that their sibling
would not be coming home from the hospital right away. Our older son
understood the seriousness of what my husband and I were saying, but my
younger daughter didn't quite get it. She just knew the baby was sick.

After the diagnosis, we chose not find out the sex of the baby. We were
worried that with more information about the baby, we would start bonding. We
thought it might be more difficult for our children if anything happened to
Caden. More than that though, I wanted one moment that was a normal pregnancy.
No matter what happened, the one thing that they couldn't take away from me
was the moment where they lifted the baby over the curtain and said "It's a
boy!" I wanted that moment to be about our family, about Caden, and not about
the CHD.

I remember the first time my other children saw Caden after he was born. When
my older son came into the room, he didn't see any tubes. He didn't see any
bandages. He just saw his little brother. It was such a sweet moment. I think
it was a Top 5 moment in my life.

![Caden holding a stuffed heart](/ncbddd/birthdefects/stories/images/Caden-
Hearts-450px.jpg)

Caden has had to undergo three open-heart surgeries since birth and spent a
lot of time in the hospital, but he is doing really well now. He loves soccer,
has traveled to six countries, and he's a crazy, rowdy child who tested gifted
in school. In the end, I wanted to share Caden's story to help give other CHD
parents hope. It's a scary diagnosis, but so much of your baby's success is
your own attitude and how you approach the challenges. I remember when I was
pregnant, I only saw one positive success story--one article where the baby
was clapping and looked happy and healthy. It was a story about survival. I
clipped it out, and it still resides in Caden's baby book. Don't lose sight of
that hope.

I also wanted to share his story to help raise awareness of CHD. Caden may
look normal and play soccer like any other child. But, at any point, the other
shoe could drop. Regardless of what he looks like on the outside, he only has
half a heart working for him on the inside. And that's why research is so
important. If not for the research that's been done, Caden wouldn't even have
a story. He wouldn't be here with us today.

Caden has taught us lessons that we might never have learned otherwise. He
taught us a different way of looking at the world. He's a picture of
inspiration for many people. Most importantly, he is a thriving little boy -
one who is not defined by his heart diagnosis.

Page last reviewed: December 5, 2019

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Birth Defects Homepage

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What are Birth Defects?plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventing Birth Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 5 Ways to Lower the Risk of Neural Tube Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Specific Birth Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Anophthalmia / Microphthalmia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Anotia / Microtia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cleft Lip / Cleft Palate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Congenital Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Atrial Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Atrioventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Coarctation of the Aorta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * D-Transposition of the Great Arteries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pulmonary Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tetralogy of Fallot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Return
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tricuspid Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Truncus Arteriosus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Craniosynostosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diaphragmatic Hernia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Down Syndromeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Growth Charts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Esophageal Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gastroschisis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hypospadias
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Microcephaly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Neural tube defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Anencephaly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Encephalocele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Spina Bifida
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Omphalocele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Upper and Lower Limb Reduction Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research & Trackingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MACDP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State-based Trackingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Arizona
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Colorado
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Florida
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Illinois
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Kentucky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Michigan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Minnesota
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * New Jersey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Oklahoma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Oregon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Puerto Rico
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Rhode Island
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Texas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Utah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CBDRPplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * NBDPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * BD-STEPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Research Tools and Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Down Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthy Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Folic Acid and Birth Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pregnant? Donât Smoke!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * World Birth Defects Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Materials & Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Coloring Pages
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Folic Acid and You
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevent to Protect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Make a PACT for Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Birth Defects are Common, Costly, and Critical
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos & Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Buttonsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Best for You. Best for Baby.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevent to Protect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * PACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Quiz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * BD Prevention Monthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Real Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cleft Lip and Palate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clubfoot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Craniosynostosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Down Syndromeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Meganâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Calebâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Bryton and Fenixâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Keatonâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Markâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Eye Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fetal Alcohol Syndrome Disorders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gastroschisis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Coarctation of the Aorta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hypoplastic left heart syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tetralogy of Fallot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Other types of heart defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Omphalocele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Spina Bifidaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Randi, Karen, & Robert
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Nikiaâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Dailyâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Eliâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Elleyâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Katieâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zacharyâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Bethâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Henryâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Reneeâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Clarkâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Anifaâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Share Your Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Information for Healthcare Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Information for Familiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Finding Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Health Care Providerâs Role
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Links to Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDCâs Work

![Zika and Pregnancy Button](/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/button-zika-
preg-180px.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

