

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Birth Defects

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Birth Defects Tracking in Kentucky

Minus

Related Pages

### Kentucky Birth Surveillance Registry

![1 in 18 babies born in Kentucky has a major birth
defect.](/ncbddd/birthdefects/states/images/infographic-ky-notext.jpg)

1 in 18 babies born in Kentucky has a major birth defect.

The Kentucky Birth Surveillance Registry (KBSR) is essential for understanding
the impact of birth defects in the state. The program promotes early and
accurate identification of babies with birth defects and facilitates
prevention, planning, and service delivery for families affected by birth
defects in the state of Kentucky.

### Common. Costly. Critical.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * In Kentucky, nearly 5,000 babies are born with one or more birth defects each year and about 350 pregnancies a year end in a stillbirth.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Birth defects are costly - hospital costs for the treatment of birth defects are more than $2.5 billion each year in the United States.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Babies born with a birth defect are more likely to die before their first birthday, compared to babies born without a birth defect.

![Baby sleeping in the palm of his mother's
hand.](/ncbddd/birthdefects/states/images/ky-1.jpg)

### About the Program

For nearly 20 years, the KBSR has served as the primary source of birth
defects data in Kentucky. This birth defects tracking system partners with
many state programs to refer babies and their families to appropriate health
services in their communities. The registry also uses the birth defects data
for prevention efforts. One of 14 birth defects programs that receive a grant
funded by CDC's National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, the KBSR monitors about 55,000 births per year.

The KBSR works to:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Track birth defects in Kentucky and monitor trends over time
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Evaluate the timeliness and quality of the data on birth defects and referral to services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Support education of the general public and health professionals about the causes, impact, and prevention of birth defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facilitate research studies to help identify causes of birth defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Refer babies and their families to appropriate services in Kentucky.

### Program in Action

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Promotes birth defects prevention:** KBSR works to help prevent birth defects by: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Working with the Kentucky Folic Acid and Perinatal Partnershipexternal icon. Since 1997 this collaboration has developed, implemented, and evaluated folic acid promotion efforts. Folic acid is a B vitamin that can help prevent birth defects of the brain and spine, called neural tube defects.  **As a result, neural tube defects in Kentucky have fallen by 27% between 2000 and 2007.**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Working with Kentucky public schools to educate students and faculty about fetal alcohol syndrome. September is Fetal Alcohol Syndrome Awareness month. During September, KBSR encourages public school principals to share Fetal Alcohol Syndrome Awareness prevention materials with staff in order to spread the word that **no** alcohol is safe while pregnant and that fetal alcohol syndrome is 100% preventable.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Teaming up with the Kentucky Substance Exposed Infants Task Force to identify Kentucky counties with high rates of substance abuse. This allows the Task Force and counties to target substance abuse prevention and program planning.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Educates stakeholders about birth defects in Kentucky:** KBSR educates healthcare providers, families, and legislators about preventing birth defects and disabling conditions. KBSR participated in the Substance Exposed Pregnancy summit, which focused on developing a state-wide effort to combat the substance abuse epidemic in Kentucky and to provide help to mothers who have a substance abuse addiction.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Supports families:** KBSR helps refer children with a birth defect or disabling condition that qualify to the Kentucky Early Intervention Program (First Steps). This program connects children and their families to appropriate health and development services in their area. KBSR also helps make sure that infants who fail a critical congenital heart defects screening receive follow-up care from a pediatric cardiologist.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Track birth defects:** As a result, KBSR has documented a 27% decrease in the number of babies born with neural tube defects in Kentucky between 2000 and 2007.

### Making a Difference

KBSR works with First Steps to connect children with a birth defect or
disabling condition to local programs that provide early intervention
services. This collaborative effort is helping to make sure that every baby in
Kentucky receives the care he or she needs.

![Kentucky Birth Surveillance
Registry](/ncbddd/birthdefects/states/images/kbsr-logo.jpg)

_" Kentucky's Early Intervention System (known as First Steps) has worked on
increasing the number of children referred to early intervention before the
age of 1 for several years. The trend indicates that the number of referrals
of children ages birth to one year is increasing. Barriers that impeded
referrals from the newborn surveillance program were diminished and an
effective mechanism for referrals to the local First Steps offices
implemented. Several local offices recorded referrals from the Kentucky Birth
Surveillance Program for the first time. We have plans to expand the
communication by developing electronic file exchanges in the future to
continue this partnership."_

-- Paula Goff, Part C Early Intervention Coordinator.

### More Information

For more information on the Kentucky Birth Surveillance Registry, please visit
their websiteexternal icon or email kbsr@ky.gov.

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State-Based Tracking Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research and Tracking Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Family Health History and Genetics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Developmental Disabilities

Page last reviewed: December 5, 2019

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Birth Defects Homepage

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What are Birth Defects?plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventing Birth Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 5 Ways to Lower the Risk of Neural Tube Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Specific Birth Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Anophthalmia / Microphthalmia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Anotia / Microtia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cleft Lip / Cleft Palate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Congenital Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Atrial Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Atrioventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Coarctation of the Aorta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * D-Transposition of the Great Arteries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pulmonary Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tetralogy of Fallot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Return
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tricuspid Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Truncus Arteriosus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Craniosynostosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diaphragmatic Hernia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Down Syndromeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Growth Charts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Esophageal Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gastroschisis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hypospadias
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Microcephaly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Neural tube defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Anencephaly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Encephalocele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Spina Bifida
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Omphalocele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Upper and Lower Limb Reduction Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research & Trackingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MACDP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State-based Trackingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Arizona
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Colorado
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Florida
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Illinois
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Kentucky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Michigan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Minnesota
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * New Jersey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Oklahoma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Oregon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Puerto Rico
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Rhode Island
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Texas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Utah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CBDRPplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * NBDPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * BD-STEPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Research Tools and Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Down Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthy Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Folic Acid and Birth Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pregnant? Donât Smoke!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * World Birth Defects Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Materials & Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Coloring Pages
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Folic Acid and You
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevent to Protect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Make a PACT for Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Birth Defects are Common, Costly, and Critical
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos & Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Buttonsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Best for You. Best for Baby.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevent to Protect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * PACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Quiz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * BD Prevention Monthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Real Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cleft Lip and Palate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clubfoot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Craniosynostosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Down Syndromeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Meganâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Calebâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Bryton and Fenixâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Keatonâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Markâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Eye Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fetal Alcohol Syndrome Disorders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gastroschisis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Coarctation of the Aorta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hypoplastic left heart syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tetralogy of Fallot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Other types of heart defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Omphalocele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Spina Bifidaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Randi, Karen, & Robert
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Nikiaâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Dailyâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Eliâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Elleyâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Katieâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zacharyâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Bethâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Henryâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Reneeâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Clarkâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Anifaâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Share Your Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Information for Healthcare Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Information for Familiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Finding Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Health Care Providerâs Role
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Links to Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDCâs Work

![Zika and Pregnancy Button](/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/button-zika-
preg-180px.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

