

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Congenital Heart Defects (CHDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

![Close up young woman smiling with heart shape hand
sign](/ncbddd/heartdefects/features/images/woman-heart-sign-hands-1400px.jpg)

Learn about heart defects and about Mary, an adult living with a heart defect.

# Congenital Heart Defects

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

#### Congenital heart defects (CHDs) are conditions that are present at birth
and can affect the structure of a baby's heart and the way it works. They are
the most common type of birth defect. As medical care and treatment have
advanced, infants with congenital heart defects are living longer and
healthier lives. Many now are living into adulthood.

What are CHDs

What We Know About CHDs

Specific Heart Defects

Data and Statistics

Tracking and Research

Fact Sheets

Articles

Multimedia and Tools

Real Stories

View events in NCBDDD's history »

![NCBDDD Celebrating 20 Years](/ncbddd/images/20-years-banner-email.jpg)

What's New

![A happy pregnant couple ](/ncbddd/heartdefects/features/images/maternal-
couple-700px-small.jpg)

Women with Heart Defects Might Have a Higher Risk of Pregnancy-Related Health
Issues

ACROSS THE LIFESPAN

![Mom holding baby](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/photo-box-mom-holding-
baby.jpg)

CDC is making progress toward understanding the healthcare needs and outcomes
among the growing population of older children and adults with congenital
heart defects.

More

HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS

![Pulse oximeter on baby's toe](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/photo-box-baby-
toe-oxygen.jpg)

Critical congenital heart defect screening using pulse oximetry is a painless
bedside test that can assist doctors in identifying babies with these heart
defects before they leave the hospital.

More

CRITICAL CHDs

![Doctor listening to baby's heart](/ncbddd/heartdefects/images/photo-box-dr-
listening-baby-heart.jpg)

About 1 in every 4 babies born with a heart defect has a critical congenital
heart defect and will need surgery or other procedures in the first year of
life.

More

Page last reviewed: February 12, 2020

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Congenital Heart Defects Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What are CHDsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How the Heart Works
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Critical Congenital Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Screening
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Current Research Activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Information for Healthcare Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Specific Heart Defectsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Atrial Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Atrioventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Coarctation of the Aorta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * D-Transposition of the Great Arteries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pulmonary Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tetralogy of Fallot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Return
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tricuspid Atresia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Truncus Arteriosus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ventricular Septal Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Living with a CHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tracking & Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Living with a Heart Defect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Free Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tracking and Research Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CHD Tracking and Research Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 10 Years of Improving Understanding of CHDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Multimedia and Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * A Heart-To-Heart Chat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Real Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Links to Other Resources

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

