

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# State and Local Programs

Minus

Related Pages

CDC funds states, universities, and communities to advance the nation's
chronic disease prevention and health promotion efforts. This site provides
information about funding and grantee programs working to increase healthy
eating and active living and prevent adult and childhood obesity.

![Active People, Healthy nation. Helping 27 million Americans become more
physically active by 2027](/nccdphp/dnpao/images/flexslider/aphn-
banner_890x364.jpg)

### Join Today!

Improve overall health, quality or life, and reduce health costs

![CDC-RFA-DP18-1807: State Physical Activity and Nutrition
Program](/nccdphp/dnpao/images/flexslider/span-banner-575x235.jpg)

### State Physical Activity and Nutrition

Implementing evidence-based strategies

![CDC-RFA-DP18-1809: High Obesity
Program](/nccdphp/dnpao/images/flexslider/hop-banner-575x235.jpg)

### High Obesity Program

Access to healthier foods and places for physical activity

![Racial and Ethnic Approaches to Community Health](/nccdphp/dnpao/state-
local-programs/images/reach-logo_575px.jpg)

### Racial and Ethnic Approaches to Community Health

Local, culturally appropriate programs to address health issues

![U.S. map](/nccdphp/dnpao/state-local-programs/images/funding-by-state-
map__150x150.jpg)

### Funding by State

The Division's three grantee awards support states, large and small cities and
counties, tribal organizations, universities, and community and healthcare
organizations.

![A heart-shaped plate with fruits vegetables, and grains next to exercise
equipement](/nccdphp/dnpao/state-local-programs/images/state-public-health-
action_150px.jpg)

### State Physical Activity and Nutrition Program

This award funds statewide initiatives to implement evidence-based strategies
at state and local levels to improve nutrition and physical activity.

![A person stepping on a scale](/nccdphp/dnpao/state-local-
programs/images/high-obesity_150px.jpg)

### High Obesity Program

This award funds land grant universities to work with community extension
services in states with counties that have more than 40% of adults with
obesity.

![REACH logo](/nccdphp/dnpao/state-local-programs/images/reach-logo_150px.jpg)

### Racial and Ethnic Approaches to Community Health (REACH)

REACH is a national program to reduce racial and ethnic health disparities
through local, culturally appropriate programs among African Americans,
American Indians, Hispanics/Latinos, Asian Americans, Alaska Natives, and
Pacific Islanders.

### Other Funding

![A girl getting a checkup](/nccdphp/dnpao/state-local-programs/images/child-
checkup_150x150.jpg)

### Childhood Obesity Research Demonstration (CORD) Project

CDC's CORD Project works with healthcare and community partners to improve
obesity screening and counseling services among low-income children and their
families, and, when appropriate, refer them to community-based healthy weight
programs.

![African American girl with apple](/nccdphp/dnpao/state-local-
programs/images/aa_girl_with_apple_150x150.jpg)

### Partners

DNPAO works with partners to create and sustain mutually beneficial strategic
relationships that promote healthy eating and active living for Americans of
all ages.

chart icon

Proven Strategies

Strategies that support healthy eating, physical activity, and breastfeeding
in child care, health care, school, worksite, and community-wide settings.

book icon

Resources & Publications

Scientific reports, articles, guidelines, training, and tools by topic.

scale icon

Health Equity

Resources to assist public health practitioners with a systematic approach to
program planning using a health equity lens.

badge icon

Success Stories

These highlights focus on grantees' efforts to implement strategies that
encourage healthy eating, increased physical activity, and breastfeeding.

Page last reviewed: February 18, 2020

Content source: Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity,
National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion

home DNPAO Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State and Local Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding by State
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * High Obesity Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recipients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Past Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State Physical Activity and Nutrition Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recipients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Past Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Racial and Ethnic Approaches to Community Health (REACH)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2020 REACH Lark Award
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * REACH 2018 Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * REACH 2018 Recipients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Program Impact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * REACH in Action
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Past REACH Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Partner Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Initiatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Proven Strategiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nutritionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Healthier Food Retail Action Guide Page
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Physical Activity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Breastfeeding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Applied Research Networks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Resources & Publicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Community Health Assessment aNd Group Evaluation (CHANGE) Toolplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About CHANGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Community Change Process and the CHANGE Tool
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Five Sectors of the CHANGE Tool
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Implementation and Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Action Stepsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Action Step 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Action Step 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Action Step 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Action Step 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Action Step 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Action Step 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Action Step 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Action Step 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Additional Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Published Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cross-Cutting Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Child & Teen Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Maternal, Infant & Toddler Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Health Equity Toolkitplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Framing the Issue Quiz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Program Assessment and Capacity Building Quiz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Gathering and Using Data Quiz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Partnerships Quiz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Partnerships Case Study Video 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Selecting Strategies Case Study Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Monitoring and Evaluation Quiz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sustainability Quiz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sustainability Case Study Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Cultural Competence Case Study Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Using Social Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC Policy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Practitionerâs Guide for Advancing Health Equity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Built Environment Assessment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policy Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Newsroomplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Featured Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Multimedia Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Go Light When You Grab a Bite
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The New (ab)Normal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Time to Scale Back
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Screen Time vs. Lean Time
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Badges & Widgets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Audio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Educational Campaignsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Our Community Deserves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Site Map

ï»¿

email_03Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this topic, enter your email address.

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity

![DNPAO logo](/nccdphp/dnpao/images/home/dnpao-links-logo_187px.png)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * DNPAO Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nutrition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Physical Activity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Overweight & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Healthy Weight
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Breastfeeding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * IMMPaCt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State and Local Programs

Related Topics

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nutrition

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

