

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Healthy Weight

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Adult BMI Calculator

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

alert icon

COVID-19: Severe Obesity (a BMI of 40 or Higher) May Raise Risk of Severe
Illness

This calculator provides BMI and the corresponding BMI weight status category.
Use this calculator for adults, 20 years old and older. For children and
teens, 2 through 19 years old, use the BMI Calculator for Children and Teens.

Adult BMI Calculator

( English | Metric )

**1\. Height:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Feet

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Inches

**2\. Weight:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pounds



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *  

Note: this calculator uses JavaScript. If you have JavaScript turned off or
have problems using the calculator, use the formula for calculating BMI on
About BMI for Adults.

Adult BMI Calculator - Results

Recalculate BMI

**Please check the accuracy of the information you entered:**

Height:

Weight:

For the information you entered:

Height:

Weight:

Your BMI is ** ** , indicating your weight is in the ** **  category for
adults of your height.

For your height, a normal weight range would be from ** **  to  ** ** pounds.

Talk with your healthcare provider to determine possible causes of underweight
and if you need to gain weight.

For the information you entered:

Height:

Weight:

Your BMI is ** ** , indicating your weight is in the ** **  category for
adults of your height.

For your height, a normal weight range would be from ** **  to  ** ** pounds.

Maintaining a healthy weight may reduce the risk of chronic diseases
associated with overweight and obesity.

For information about the importance of a healthy diet and physical activity
in maintaining a healthy weight, visit Preventing Weight Gain.

For the information you entered:

Height:

Weight:

Your BMI is ** ** , indicating your weight is in the ** **  category for
adults of your height.

For your height, a normal weight range would be from ** ** to ** ** pounds.

People who are overweight or obese are at higher risk for chronic conditions
such as high blood pressure, diabetes, and high cholesterol.

For the information you entered:

Height:

Weight:

Your BMI is ** ** , indicating your weight is in the ** **  category for
adults of your height.

For your height, a normal weight range would be from ** ** to ** ** pounds.

People who are overweight or obese are at higher risk for chronic conditions
such as high blood pressure, diabetes, and high cholesterol.

Anyone who is overweight should try to avoid gaining additional weight.
Additionally, if you are overweight with other risk factors (such as high LDL
cholesterol, low HDL cholesterol, or high blood pressure), you should try to
lose weight. Even a small weight loss (just 10% of your current weight) may
help lower the risk of disease. Talk with your healthcare provider to
determine appropriate ways to lose weight.

For information about the importance of a healthy diet and physical activity
in reaching a healthy weight, visit Healthy Weight.

BMI Healthy Weight BMI | Weight Status  
---|---  
Below 18.5 | Underweight  
18.5--24.9 | Normal  
25.0--29.9 | Overweight  
30.0 and Above | Obese  
  
Related Resources

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What is BMI?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * How is BMI used?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What are the BMI trends for adults in the United States?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Why is BMI used to measure overweight and obesity?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What are some of the other ways to assess excess body fatness besides BMI?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * How is BMI calculated?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * How is BMI interpreted for adults?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Is BMI interpreted the same way for children and teens as it is for adults?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * How good is BMI as an indicator of body fatness?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * If an athlete or other person with a lot of muscle has a BMI over 25, is that person still considered to be overweight?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What are the health consequences of obesity for adults?

### Adult BMI Calculator Widget

A widget is an application that can be used by partners to display featured
health content directly on their desktop, website or social media site.
Widgets can also be shared with friends.

#### Adult BMI (Body Mass Index) Calculator

Add this widget to your Web site to let anyone calculate their BMI. BMI
provides a reliable indicator of body fatness for most people and is used to
screen for weight categories that may lead to health problems. This calculator
provides BMI and the corresponding weight category. Use this calculator for
adults, 20 years old and older.

### Add the Adult BMI Calculator to Your Page

#### BMI For Adults Widget

Please upgrade to web browser that supports iframes to see this CDC widget.

**Copy the code below for this widget**

<h3>BMI For Adults Widget</h3><br /><br /><br /><br /><p><iframe
src='https://www.cdc.gov/healthyweight/assessing/adult-widget/iframe.html'
frameborder='0′ style='border: none;' width='170′ height='395′>Please upgrade
to web browser that supports iframes to see this CDC widget.</iframe>

Page last reviewed: April 3, 2020

Content source: Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity,
National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion

home Healthy Weight

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Assessing Your Weight expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Body Mass Index (BMI)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About Adult BMI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adult BMI Calculator expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Metric Version
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About Child & Teen BMI expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Measuring Childrenâs Height and Weight Accurately At Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Child & Teen BMI Calculator
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Childrenâs BMI Tool for Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Finding a Balance expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other Factors in Weight Gain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventing Weight Gain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Losing Weight expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Getting Started
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Improving Your Eating Habits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Keeping It Off
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Healthy Eating for a Healthy Weight expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Planning Meals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cutting Calories expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Eat More, Weigh Less?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Rethink Your Drink
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Portion Pitfalls
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Using Fruits & Vegetables to Manage Your Weight
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthy Recipes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Physical Activity for a Healthy Weight expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Getting Started
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tips for Parents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Health Effects of Overweight & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * External Resources

ï»¿

email_03Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this topic, enter your email address.

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity

![DNPAO logo](/nccdphp/dnpao/images/home/dnpao-links-logo_187px.png)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nutrition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Physical Activity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Overweight & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Healthy Weight
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Breastfeeding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Micronutrient Malnutrition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State and Local Programs

Related Topics

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nutrition

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

