

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Healthy Weight

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# The Health Effects of Overweight and Obesity

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

People who have obesity, compared to those with a normal or healthy weight,
are at increased risk for many serious diseases and health conditions,
including the following:1,2,3

![Photo: Woman standing on a scale](/healthyweight/images/Woman-on-scale-
small.jpg)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * All-causes of death (mortality)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * High blood pressure (Hypertension)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * High LDL cholesterol, low HDL cholesterol, or high levels of triglycerides (Dyslipidemia)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Type 2 diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Coronary heart disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Stroke
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Gallbladder disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Osteoarthritis (a breakdown of cartilage and bone within a joint)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sleep apnea and breathing problems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Many types of cancerexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Low quality of life
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mental illness such as clinical depression, anxiety, and other mental disorders4,5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Body pain and difficulty with physical functioning6

For more information about these and other health problems associated with
overweight and obesity, visit Clinical Guidelines on the Identification,
Evaluation, and Treatment of Overweight and Obesity in Adults pdf
icon[PDF-1.25MB]external icon.

 Top of Page

Want to learn more?

 **What Are the Health Risks of Overweight and Obesity?** external icon  
Learn about the risks for adults from many diseases and conditions, by
National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute (NIH).

**Weight Loss- American Diabetes Associationexternal icon***  
Did you know that nearly 9 out of 10 people with newly diagnosed type 2
diabetes are overweight? If you are overweight, losing some weight could help
you better manage your diabetes.

**CDC 's Obesity and Overweight**  
Obesity trends, economic consequences, state-based programs and other
resources for the health professional.

*Overweight is defined as a body mass index (BMI) of 25 or higher; obesity is defined as a BMI of 30 or higher.

References

1NHLBI. 2013. Managing Overweight and Obesity in Adults: Systematic Evidence
Review from the Obesity Expert Panel. pdf icon[PDF-5.89MB]external icon

2Clinical Guidelines on the Identification, Evaluation, and Treatment of
Overweight and Obesity in Adults. pdf icon[PDF-1.25MB]external icon

3Bhaskaran K, Douglas I, Forbes H, dos-Santos-Silva I, Leon DA, Smeeth L.
Body-mass index and risk of 22 specific cancers: a population-based cohort
study of 5•24 million UK adults. Lancet. 2014 Aug 30;384(9945):755-65. doi:
10.1016/S0140-6736(14)60892-8. Epub 2014 Aug 13.

4Kasen, Stephanie, et al. "Obesity and psychopathology in women: a three
decade prospective study." _International Journal of Obesity_ 32.3 (2008):
558-566.

5Luppino, Floriana S., et al. "Overweight, obesity, and depression: a
systematic review and meta-analysis of longitudinal studies." _Archives of
general psychiatry_ 67.3 (2010): 220-229.

6Roberts, Robert E., et al. "Prospective association between obesity and
depression: evidence from the Alameda County Study." _International journal of
obesity_ 27.4 (2003): 514-521.

Top of Page

Page last reviewed: February 20, 2020

Content source: Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity,
National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion

home Healthy Weight

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Assessing Your Weight expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Body Mass Index (BMI)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About Adult BMI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adult BMI Calculator expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Metric Version
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About Child & Teen BMI expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Measuring Childrenâs Height and Weight Accurately At Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Child & Teen BMI Calculator
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Childrenâs BMI Tool for Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Finding a Balance expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other Factors in Weight Gain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventing Weight Gain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Losing Weight expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Getting Started
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Improving Your Eating Habits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Keeping It Off
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Healthy Eating for a Healthy Weight expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Planning Meals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cutting Calories expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Eat More, Weigh Less?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Rethink Your Drink
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Portion Pitfalls
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Using Fruits & Vegetables to Manage Your Weight
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthy Recipes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Physical Activity for a Healthy Weight expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Getting Started
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tips for Parents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Health Effects of Overweight & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * External Resources

ï»¿

email_03Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this topic, enter your email address.

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity

![DNPAO logo](/nccdphp/dnpao/images/home/dnpao-links-logo_187px.png)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nutrition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Physical Activity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Overweight & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Healthy Weight
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Breastfeeding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Micronutrient Malnutrition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State and Local Programs

Related Topics

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nutrition

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

