Link: https://medlineplus.gov/aboutmedlineplus.html    
                                Description: MedlinePlus is an online health information resource for patients and their families and friends. Learn about Health Topics, the Medical Encyclopedia, and more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

About MedlinePlus ->

General Information about MedlinePlus ->

Learn about MedlinePlus

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/about/general/aboutmedlineplus/

# Learn about MedlinePlus

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Printable PDF

MedlinePlus is an online health information resource for patients and their
families and friends. It is a service of the National Library of Medicine
(NLM), the world's largest medical library, and a part of the National
Institutes of Health (NIH).

Our mission is to present high-quality, relevant health and wellness
information that is trusted and easy to understand, in both English and
Spanish. We make reliable health information available anytime, anywhere, for
free. There is no advertising on this website, and MedlinePlus does not
endorse any companies or products.

## MedlinePlus at a Glance

  * Offers information on health conditions, medical tests, medications, dietary supplements, and healthy recipes.
  * Sourced from more than 1,600 selected organizations.
  * Provides 40,000 links to authoritative health information in English and 18,000 links to information in Spanish.
  * In 2018, 277 million users viewed MedlinePlus more than 700 million times.

## MedlinePlus Features

Health Topics

Read about wellness issues and the symptoms, causes, treatment, and prevention
of over 1,000 diseases, illnesses, and health conditions. Each health topic
page links to information from NIH and other authoritative sources, as well as
a PubMedÂ® search. MedlinePlus uses a set of strict selection criteria to
choose quality resources to include on our health topic pages.

Medical Tests

MedlinePlus has descriptions of more than 150 medical tests used to screen
for, diagnose, and guide the treatment of various health conditions. Each
description includes what the test is used for, why a healthcare provider
might order the test, how the test will feel, and what the results may mean.

Medical Encyclopedia

The Medical Encyclopedia from A.D.A.M includes an extensive library of medical
images and videos, as well as more than 4,000 articles about diseases, tests,
symptoms, injuries, and surgeries.

Drugs & Supplements

Learn about prescription drugs, over-the-counter medicines, dietary
supplements, and herbal remedies.

AHFSÂ® Consumer Medication Information from the American Society of Health-
System Pharmacists (ASHP) provides extensive information about almost 1,500
name and generic prescription and over-the-counter drugs, including side
effects, usual dosage, precautions, and storage for each drug.

The Natural Medicines Comprehensive Database Consumer Version, an evidence-
based collection of information on alternative treatments, provides 100
monographs on herbs and supplements.

Healthy Recipes

Healthy recipes available from MedlinePlus use a variety of fruits and
vegetables, fat-free or low-fat dairy, various proteins, and healthy oils. A
complete Nutrition Facts label is included for each recipe.

Special Collections

Health information in multiple languages: Links to resources in more than 60
languages, available as documents, audio recordings, and/or video.

Easy-to-read materials: Links to health information that is easier for people
to read, understand, and use.

Videos and tools: Videos that explain topics in health and medicine, as well
as tools such as tutorials, calculators, and quizzes.

## Technical Services

  * MedlinePlus Connect is a service that allows health organizations and health IT providers to link patient portals and electronic health record (EHR) systems to MedlinePlus.
  * For developers, MedlinePlus also has a web service, XML files, and an RSS feed that provide data from MedlinePlus.

## Awards and Recognition

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/wsa_logo.gif)

MedlinePlus was the U.S. winner of the 2005 World Summit on the Information
Society Awards for e-health.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/awards_mla_logo.png)

Winner of the Thomas Reuters/Frank Bradway Rogers Information Advancement
Award in 2014 for MedlinePlus Connect and in 2004 for MedlinePlus.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/awards_hhs_logo.png)

MedlinePlus Connect wins HHS _innovates_ Award in March 2011.

  

  

## More information

Read more about MedlinePlus

Articles about MedlinePlus: PubMed, NLM Technical Bulletin

Printable brochures and handouts

Subscribe to the My MedlinePlus Newsletter and other updates by e-mail or text

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 3 December 2019

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

