

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Breastfeeding

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Breastfeeding

Minus

Related Pages

![Proper storage and preparation of breast
milk](/breastfeeding/images/flash/breastmilk-storage-647x336.jpg)

Discover CDC's handout on breast milk storage and preparation recommendations.

![Be Prepared. Continue breastfeeding during an
emergency.](/breastfeeding/images/flash/be-prepared_647x336.jpg)

Be Prepared

Continue Breastfeeding During an Emergency

![2018 Breastfeeding Report Card. New breastfeeding rates
available.](/breastfeeding/images/flash/breastfeeding-reportcard_647x336.jpg)

Breastfeeding Report Card, United States 2018

![Guide to Strategies to Support Breastfeeding Mothers and
Babies](/breastfeeding/images/flash/breastfeeding-guide_647x336.jpg)

Breastfeeding Guide

Guide to Strategies to Support Breastfeeding Mothers and Babies

CDC's Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity (DNPAO) is
committed to increasing breastfeeding rates throughout the United States and
to promoting and supporting optimal breastfeeding practices toward the
ultimate goal of improving the public's health.

alert icon

About Breastfeeding

Why it matters, what CDC is doing, making a difference.

chart icon

Data & Statistics

National and state data on breastfeeding rates, support indicators, infant
feeding practices, and maternity care practices.

clipboard icon

Guidelines & Recommendations

Human milk handling/storage, food safety after a natural disaster, safety in
maternity care and more.

people icon

Breastfeeding & Special Circumstances

Nutritional concerns, illnesses, exposures, vaccines, and medications/drugs.

book icon

Resource Library

CDC toolkits, reports, fact sheets, and more.

question icon

FAQS

Answers to frequently asked questions for healthcare providers and families.

### In the Spotlight

![A child eating cereal with a spoon](/breastfeeding/images/data/ifps-messy-
boy_285px-thumbnail.jpg)

**IFPSII Follow-up Study**  -  Infant Feeding Practices Study II: a
longitudinal study that followed about 2,000 mother-infant pairs from the
third trimester throughout the first year of life.

![Logo: Blueprint for Action on
Breastfeeding](/breastfeeding/images/sg_call_2011-thumbnail.jpg)

**The Surgeon General's Call to Action to Support Breastfeeding** - A Call to
Action to make it possible for every mother who wishes to breastfeed to be
able to do so.

![Data, Trends, and Maps](/breastfeeding/images/data-trends-maps-
icon-80x50-thumbnail.jpg)

**Data, Trends, and Maps**  - This interactive database that provides
information about the health status and behaviors of Americans, state-by-
state, via clickable maps, charts, and tables.

![CDC Vital Signs](/breastfeeding/images/vitalsigns-logotop-
man_285px-80x-thumbnail.jpg)

**Vital Signs **- Hospital Support for Breastfeeding: Preventing Obesity
Begins in Hospitals.

Page last reviewed: March 2, 2020

Content source: Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity,
National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion

home Breastfeeding

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Breastfeedingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Why It Matters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * What CDC Is Doing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Making A Difference
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Breastfeeding Report Card
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Breastfeeding Ratesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Survey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Analysis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Maternity Care Practicesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Survey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Scoring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hospital FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Public Opinions About Breastfeeding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Breastfeeding and Infant Feeding Practicesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidelines & Recommendationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Proper Storage and Preparation of Breast Milkplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food Safety for Infants After a Natural Disaster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Safety in Maternity Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Breast Milk Mix-Up
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Breastfeeding and Special Circumstancesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Contraindications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diet and Micronutrientsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Maternal Diet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Iodine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Iron
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vitamin B12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vitamin D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vitamin K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Maternal or Infant Illnesses or Conditionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Birth Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Breast Surgery
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ebola Virus Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Food-borne and Waterborne Illness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hepatitis B or C Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Herpes Simplex Virus (HSV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Influenza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Jaundice
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Lyme Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Malaria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Postpartum Depression
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Shingles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Toxoplasmosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * West Nile Virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Environmental Exposuresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Anthrax
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Lead
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mercury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vaccinations, Medications, & Drugsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prescription Medication Use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tobacco and E-Cigarettes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Marijuana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Alcohol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travel Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Resources Libraryplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reportsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Call to Action
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Toolkits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Related Links
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheets & Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicated Content
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)

ï»¿

email_03Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this topic, enter your email address.

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity

![DNPAO logo](/nccdphp/dnpao/images/home/dnpao-links-logo_187px.png)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nutrition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Physical Activity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Overweight & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Healthy Weight
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Breastfeeding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Micronutrient Malnutrition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State and Local Programs

Related Topics

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nutrition

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

