

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Healthy Weight

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Losing Weight

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

### What is healthy weight loss?

![Senior couple jogging in a park](/healthyweight/images/losing-
weight/ThinkstockPhotos-122174720-small.jpg)

It's natural for anyone trying to lose weight to want to lose it very quickly.
But people who lose weight gradually and steadily (about 1 to 2 pounds per
week) are more successful at keeping weight off. Healthy weight loss isn't
just about a "diet" or "program". It's about an ongoing lifestyle that
includes long-term changes in daily eating and exercise habits.

Once you've achieved a healthy weight, rely on healthy eating and physical
activity to help you keep the weight off over the long term.

Losing weight is not easy, and it takes commitment. But if you're ready to get
started, we've got a step-by-step guide to help get you on the road to weight
loss and better health.

### Even modest weight loss can mean big benefits

Even a modest weight loss of 5 to 10 percent of your total body weight is
likely to produce health benefits, such as improvements in blood pressure,
blood cholesterol, and blood sugars.1

For example, if you weigh 200 pounds, a 5 percent weight loss equals 10
pounds, bringing your weight down to 190 pounds. While this weight may still
be in the "overweight" or "obese" range, this modest weight loss can decrease
your risk factors for chronic diseases related to obesity.

So even if the overall goal seems large, see it as a journey rather than just
a final destination. You'll learn new eating and physical activity habits that
will help you live a healthier lifestyle. These habits may help you maintain
your weight loss over time.

For example, the National Weight Control Registryexternal icon noted that
study participants who maintained a significant weight loss reported
improvements in physical health as well as energy levels, physical mobility,
general mood, and self-confidence.

Top of Page

Want to learn more?

 **Getting Started** **  
** Check out our step-by-step guide to help you get on the road to weight loss
and better health.

**Improving Your Eating Habits** **  
** Your eating habits may be leading to weight gain; for example, eating too
fast, always clearing your plate, eating when you are not hungry and skipping
meals (or maybe just breakfast).

**Keeping the Weight Off** **  
** Losing weight is the first step. Once you've lost weight, you'll want to
learn how to keep it off.

#### References

1 Reference for 5%: Blackburn G. (1995). Effect of degree of weight loss on
health benefits. Obesity Research 3: 211S-216S. Reference for 10%: NIH, NHLBI
Obesity Education Initiative. Clinical Guidelines on the Identification,
Evaluation, and Treatment of Overweight and Obesity in Adults. Available
online: http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/guidelines/obesity/ob_gdlns.pdf pdf
icon[PDF-1.25MB]external icon

Page last reviewed: February 4, 2020

Content source: Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity,
National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion

home Healthy Weight

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Assessing Your Weight expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Body Mass Index (BMI)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About Adult BMI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adult BMI Calculator expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Metric Version
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About Child & Teen BMI expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Measuring Childrenâs Height and Weight Accurately At Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Child & Teen BMI Calculator
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Childrenâs BMI Tool for Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Finding a Balance expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other Factors in Weight Gain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventing Weight Gain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Losing Weight expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Getting Started
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Improving Your Eating Habits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Keeping It Off
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Healthy Eating for a Healthy Weight expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Planning Meals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cutting Calories expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Eat More, Weigh Less?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Rethink Your Drink
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Portion Pitfalls
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Using Fruits & Vegetables to Manage Your Weight
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthy Recipes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Physical Activity for a Healthy Weight expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Getting Started
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tips for Parents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Health Effects of Overweight & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * External Resources

ï»¿

email_03Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this topic, enter your email address.

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity

![DNPAO logo](/nccdphp/dnpao/images/home/dnpao-links-logo_187px.png)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nutrition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Physical Activity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Overweight & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Healthy Weight
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Breastfeeding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Micronutrient Malnutrition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State and Local Programs

Related Topics

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nutrition

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

