

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Healthy Weight

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Assessing Your Weight

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

![BMI Calculator for
Adults](/healthyweight/images/assessing/adults_calculator.jpg)

Adult BMI Calculator

A high amount of body fat can lead to weight-related diseases and other health
issues. Being underweight is also a health risk. Body Mass Index (BMI) and
waist circumference are screening tools to estimate weight status in relation
to potential disease risk. However, BMI and waist circumference are not
diagnostic tools for disease risks. A trained healthcare provider should
perform other health assessments to evaluate disease risk and diagnose disease
status.

### How to Measure and Interpret Weight Status

#### Adult Body Mass Index or BMI

BMI is a person's weight in kilograms divided by the square of height in
meters. A high BMI can indicate high body fatness, and a low BMI can indicate
too low body fatness. To calculate your BMI, see the BMI Calculator. Or
determine your BMI by finding your height and weight in this BMI Index
Chartexternal icon1.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **If your BMI is less than 18.5** , it falls within the underweight range.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **If your BMI is 18.5 to 24.9** , it falls within the normal or Healthy Weight range.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **If your BMI is 25.0 to 29.9** , it falls within the overweight range.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **If your BMI is 30.0 or higher** , it falls within the obese range.

Weight that is higher than what is considered as a healthy weight for a given
height is described as overweight or obese. Weight that is lower than what is
considered as healthy for a given height is described as underweight.1

At an individual level, BMI can be used as a screening tool but is not
diagnostic of the body fatness or health of an individual. A trained
healthcare provider should perform appropriate health assessments in order to
evaluate an individual's health status and risks.

### How to Measure Height and Weight for BMI

Height and weight must be measured to calculate BMI. It is most accurate to
measure height in meters and weight in kilograms. However, the BMI formula has
been adapted for height measured in inches and weight measured in pounds.
These measurements can be taken in a healthcare provider's office, or at home
using a tape measure and scale.

For more, see About Adult BMI.

Top of Page

### Waist Circumference

How To Measure Your Waist Circumference2

![image showing how to measure your
waist](/healthyweight/images/assessing/waist-circunference.jpg)

To correctly measure waist circumference:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Stand and place a tape measure around your middle, just above your hipbones
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Make sure tape is horizontal around the waist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Keep the tape snug around the waist, but not compressing the skin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Measure your waist just after you breathe out

Another way to estimate your potential disease risk is to measure your waist
circumference. Excessive abdominal fat may be serious because it places you at
greater risk for developing obesity-related conditions, such as Type 2
Diabetes, high blood pressure, and coronary artery disease. Your waistline may
be telling you that you have a higher risk of developing obesity-related
conditions if you are1:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * A man whose waist circumference is more than 40 inches
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * A non-pregnant woman whose waist circumference is more than 35 inches

Waist circumference can be used as a screening tool but is not diagnostic of
the body fatness or health of an individual. A trained healthcare provider
should perform appropriate health assessments in order to evaluate an
individual's health status and risks.

**Note** : The information on these pages is intended for adult men and non-
pregnant women only. To assess the weight of children or teenagers, see the
Child and Teen BMI Calculator.

Top of Page

Want to learn more?

 **Preventing Weight Gain**  
Choosing a lifestyle that includes good eating habits and daily physical
activity can help you maintain a healthy weight and prevent weight gain.

**The Possible Health Effects from Having Obesity**  
Having obesity can increase your chances of developing certain diseases and
health conditions.

**Losing Weight** **Losing Weight**  
If you are overweight or have obesity and have decided to lose weight, even
modest weight loss can mean big health benefits.

**Underweight**  
If you are concerned about being underweight, please seek a trained healthcare
provider. The Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics Healthy Weight Gainexternal
icon webpage provides some information and advice on how to gain weight and
remain healthy.

#### References

1NBHLI. The Practical Guide for Identification, Evaluation, and Treatment of
Overweight and Obesity in Adults pdf icon[PDF -1.51MB]external icon. 2000.

2DHHS. A Healthier Youexternal icon. 2005.

Page last reviewed: January 28, 2020

Content source: Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity,
National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion

home Healthy Weight

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Assessing Your Weight expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Body Mass Index (BMI)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About Adult BMI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adult BMI Calculator expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Metric Version
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About Child & Teen BMI expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Measuring Childrenâs Height and Weight Accurately At Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Child & Teen BMI Calculator
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Childrenâs BMI Tool for Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Finding a Balance expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other Factors in Weight Gain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventing Weight Gain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Losing Weight expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Getting Started
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Improving Your Eating Habits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Keeping It Off
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Healthy Eating for a Healthy Weight expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Planning Meals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cutting Calories expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Eat More, Weigh Less?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Rethink Your Drink
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Portion Pitfalls
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Using Fruits & Vegetables to Manage Your Weight
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthy Recipes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Physical Activity for a Healthy Weight expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Getting Started
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tips for Parents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Health Effects of Overweight & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * External Resources

ï»¿

email_03Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this topic, enter your email address.

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity

![DNPAO logo](/nccdphp/dnpao/images/home/dnpao-links-logo_187px.png)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nutrition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Physical Activity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Overweight & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Healthy Weight
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Breastfeeding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Micronutrient Malnutrition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State and Local Programs

Related Topics

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nutrition

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

