Link: https://medlineplus.gov/copyright.html    
                                Description: Some content on MedlinePlus is in the public domain and some is copyrighted. Learn the rules for linking to and using public domain and licensed content.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

About MedlinePlus ->

Using MedlinePlus ->

Linking to and Using Content from MedlinePlus

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/about/using/usingcontent/

# Linking to and Using Content from MedlinePlus

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Some of the content on MedlinePlus is in the public domain (not copyrighted),
and other content is copyrighted and licensed specifically for use on
MedlinePlus. There are different rules for linking to and using content that
is in the public domain and content that is copyrighted. These rules are
described below.

## Content that is not copyrighted

Works produced by the federal government are not copyrighted under U.S. law.
You may reproduce, redistribute, and link freely to non-copyrighted content,
including on social media.

MedlinePlus information that is in the public domain includes the following
areas, in both English and Spanish:

  * MedlinePlus homepage
  * Summaries on health topic pages
  * Medical test information
  * Healthy recipes
  * MedlinePlus videos
  * Tutorials: Understanding Medical Words and Evaluating Health Information

Please acknowledge MedlinePlus as the source of the information by including
the phrase "Courtesy of MedlinePlus from the National Library of Medicine" or
"Source: MedlinePlus, National Library of Medicine." You can also use the
following text to describe MedlinePlus:

MedlinePlus brings together authoritative health information from the National
Library of Medicine (NLM), the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and other
government agencies and health-related organizations.

MedlinePlus provides downloadable XML data via its web service and XML files.
These services, which are designed for use by web developers, allow you to
easily display, customize, and repurpose MedlinePlus data.

If you want to link patients or healthcare providers from electronic health
record (EHR) systems to relevant MedlinePlus information, use MedlinePlus
Connect. You are welcome to link to and display the data provided by these
services.

Additional information from NLM about copyright is available here.

## Copyrighted content

Other content on MedlinePlus is copyrighted, and NLM licenses this material
specifically for use on MedlinePlus. Copyrighted materials are labeled,
generally near the bottom of the page, with the copyright holder and date of
copyright.

The following materials on MedlinePlus, in both English and Spanish, are
protected by U.S. copyright laws:

  * Any content from the A.D.A.M. Medical Encyclopedia, including but not limited to articles and videos
  * Drug monographs from the American Society of Health-System Pharmacists
  * Herb and supplement monographs from Natural Medicines Comprehensive Database
  * Images, illustrations, and photos

Users of MedlinePlus are directly and solely responsible for complying with
copyright restrictions and are expected to adhere to the terms and conditions
defined by the copyright holder. Transmission, reproduction, or reuse of
protected material, beyond that allowed by the fair use principles of the
copyright laws, requires the written permission of the copyright owners. U.S.
fair use guidelines are available from the Copyright Office at the Library of
Congress.

You may not ingest and/or brand the copyrighted content found on MedlinePlus
in an EHR, patient portal, or other health IT system. To do so, you must
license the content directly from the information vendor. (See below for
vendor contact information.)

It is allowable to make single direct links to the materials listed above. For
example, you may share a link on social media using the share buttons or
e-mail a link for personal use.

## Contact information for copyright holders of licensed content on
MedlinePlus

### Medical Encyclopedia

  * A.D.A.M., Inc.: http://www.adam.com/contact.html

### Drug and Supplement Information

  * American Society of Health-System Pharmacists: https://www.ashp.org/Contact-Us/
  * Natural Medicines Comprehensive Database Consumer: http://info.therapeuticresearch.com/contact-customer-support

### Images, illustrations, logos, and photos

  * Images on Health Topic pages attributed to A.D.A.M.: http://www.adamimages.com/ContactUs
  * Images on Health Topic pages attributed to government agencies: Consult the agency specified as the source of the original image.
  * Images on Health Topic pages with no attribution: These are stock images licensed expressly for MedlinePlus; you may not reproduce or redistribute these images.
  * NLM Logos Policy

## Additional information

You may not frame or manipulate web addresses (URLs) so that MedlinePlus pages
appear on a URL other than www.nlm.nih.gov or medlineplus.gov. You may not
give the impression or create the illusion that MedlinePlus pages are under
another domain name or location.

The MedlinePlus RSS feeds are for personal use only. They may contain licensed
content and, therefore, NLM cannot grant you permission to use the MedlinePlus
RSS feeds on your web site or information services.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 7 November 2019

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

