

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Healthy Weight

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# How to Avoid Portion Size Pitfalls to Help Manage Your Weight

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

When eating at many restaurants, it's hard to miss that portion sizes have
gotten larger in the last few years. The trend has also spilled over into the
grocery store and vending machines, where a bagel has become a BAGEL and an
"individual" bag of chips can easily feed more than one. Research shows that
people unintentionally consume more calories when faced with larger portions.
This can mean significant excess calorie intake, especially when eating high-
calorie foods. Here are some tips to help you avoid some common portion-size
pitfalls.

![Cover: Portion Brochure](/healthyweight/images/healthy-
eating/portion_brochure_small.jpg)

This is also available as a Print-friendly game board brochure Cdc-
pdf[PDF-816KB].

![split an entree with a friend](/healthyweight/images/healthy-
eating/split_entree.gif)

**Portion control when eating out**. Many restaurants serve more food than one
person needs at one meal. Take control of the amount of food that ends up on
your plate by splitting an entree with a friend. Or, ask the wait person for a
"to-go" box and wrap up half your meal as soon as it's brought to the table.

**Portion control when eating in**. To minimize the temptation of second and
third helpings when eating at home, serve the food on individual plates,
instead of putting the serving dishes on the table. Keeping the excess food
out of reach may discourage overeating.

**Portion control in front of the TV**. When eating or snacking in front of
the TV, put the amount that you plan to eat into a bowl or container instead
of eating straight from the package. It's easy to overeat when your attention
is focused on something else.

![snack on fruit](/healthyweight/images/healthy-eating/snack_fruit.gif)

**Go ahead, spoil your dinner**. We learned as children not to snack before a
meal for fear of "spoiling our dinner." Well, it's time to forget that old
rule. If you feel hungry between meals, eat a healthy snack, like a piece of
fruit or small salad, to avoid overeating during your next meal.

**Be aware of large packages**. For some reason, the larger the package, the
more people consume from it without realizing it. To minimize this effect:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Divide up the contents of one large package into several smaller containers to help avoid over-consumption.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Don't eat straight from the package. Instead, serve the food in a small bowl or container.

![Replace candy with a fruit bowl](/healthyweight/images/healthy-
eating/replace_candy.jpg)

**Out of sight, out of mind**. People tend to consume more when they have easy
access to food. Make your home a "portion friendly zone."

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Replace the candy dish with a fruit bowl.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Store especially tempting foods, like cookies, chips, or ice cream, out of immediate eyesight, like on a high shelf or at the back of the freezer. Move the healthier food to the front at eye level.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * When buying in bulk, store the excess in a place that's not convenient to get to, such as a high cabinet or at the back of the pantry.

Related Resources

Check out these Web sites for more portion size tips:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ChooseMyPlateExternal is the federal government's nutrition education and guidance Web site and was developed as an effort to promote healthy eating and to encourage consumers to make healthy choices.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Want to know the amount of each food group you need daily? Find out and receive a customized Daily Food PlanExternal.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Portion Distortion Quiz from the National Heart Lung and Blood InstituteExternal (NHLBI) shows how portion sizes of some common foods have changed over the years.

Food labels can help you understand that portion sizes are often larger than
you think. Click the link below to learn how to use the Nutrition Facts Label
on food packages:

Do Increased Portion Sizes Affect How Much We Eat? Research to Practice Series
No. 2 Cdc-pdf[PDF-239KB]

**CDC, Nutrition and Physical Activity**  
This research-to-practice review examines what science underlies the notion
that large portion sizes have contributed to weight gain among Americans. This
section also offers ideas to practitioners about how to counsel their patients
or clients about portion size.

Page last reviewed: August 18, 2015

Content source: Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity,
National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion

home Healthy Weight

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Assessing Your Weight expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Body Mass Index (BMI)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About Adult BMI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adult BMI Calculator expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Metric Version
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About Child & Teen BMI expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Measuring Childrenâs Height and Weight Accurately At Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Child & Teen BMI Calculator
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Childrenâs BMI Tool for Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Finding a Balance expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other Factors in Weight Gain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventing Weight Gain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Losing Weight expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Getting Started
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Improving Your Eating Habits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Keeping It Off
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Healthy Eating for a Healthy Weight expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Planning Meals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cutting Calories expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Eat More, Weigh Less?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Rethink Your Drink
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Portion Pitfalls
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Using Fruits & Vegetables to Manage Your Weight
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthy Recipes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Physical Activity for a Healthy Weight expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Getting Started
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tips for Parents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Health Effects of Overweight & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * External Resources

ï»¿

email_03Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this topic, enter your email address.

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity

![DNPAO logo](/nccdphp/dnpao/images/home/dnpao-links-logo_187px.png)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nutrition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Physical Activity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Overweight & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Healthy Weight
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Breastfeeding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Micronutrient Malnutrition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State and Local Programs

Related Topics

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nutrition

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

