

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Healthy Weight

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# How to Use Fruits and Vegetables to Help Manage Your Weight

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * To lose weight, you must eat fewer calories than your body uses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Simple ways to cut calories and eat more fruits and vegetables throughout the day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * More Tips for Making Fruits and Vegetables Part of Your Weight Management Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Related Resources

Using more fruits and vegetables, along with whole grains, lean meats, nuts,
and beans, is a safe and healthy way to lose or maintain weight. In addition,
diets rich in fruits and vegetables may reduce the risk of some types of
cancer and other chronic diseases. Fruits and vegetables also provide
essential vitamins and minerals, fiber, and other substances that are
important for good health.

### To lose weight, you must eat fewer calories than your body uses

![Photo: Basket of fruits and vegetables](/healthyweight/images/healthy-
eating/fruit-veggies_285px-small.jpg)

This doesn't necessarily mean that you have to eat less food. You can create
lower-calorie versions of some of your favorite dishes by substituting low-
calorie fruits and vegetables in place of higher-calorie ingredients. The
water and fiber in fruits and vegetables will add volume to your dishes, so
you can eat the same amount of food with fewer calories. Most fruits and
vegetables are naturally low in fat and calories and are filling.

### Simple ways to cut calories and eat more fruits and vegetables throughout
the day

#### Breakfast: Start the Day Right

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Substitute spinach, onions, or mushrooms for one egg or half the cheese in your morning omelet. The vegetables will add volume and flavor to the dish with fewer calories than the egg or cheese.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cut back on the amount of cereal in your bowl to make room for some cut-up bananas, peaches, or strawberries. You can still eat a full bowl, but with fewer calories.

#### Lighten Up Your Lunch

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ![photo of peas](/healthyweight/images/healthy-eating/peas.jpg)

Substitute vegetables such as lettuce, tomatoes, cucumbers, or onions for 2
ounces of the cheese and 2 ounces of the meat in your sandwich, wrap, or
burrito. The new version will fill you up with fewer calories than the
original.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Replace 2 ounces of meat or 1 cup of noodles in broth-based soup with 1 cup of chopped vegetables, such as broccoli, carrots, beans, or red peppers. The vegetables will help fill you up, so you won't miss those extra calories.

#### Dinner

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ![Photo: Two soups](/healthyweight/images/healthy-eating/soups.jpg)

Add in 1 cup of chopped vegetables such as broccoli, tomatoes, squash, onions,
or peppers, while removing 1 cup of the rice or pasta in your favorite dish.
The dish with the vegetables will be just as satisfying but have fewer
calories than the same amount of the original version.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Take a good look at your dinner plate. Vegetables, fruit, and whole grains should take up the largest portion of your plate. If they do not, replace some of the meat, cheese, white pasta, or rice with legumes, steamed broccoli, asparagus, greens, or another favorite vegetable. This will reduce the total calories in your meal without reducing the amount of food you eat. BUT remember to use a normal- or small-size plate -- not a platter. The total number of calories that you eat counts, even if a good proportion of them come from fruits and vegetables.

#### Smart Snacks

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Most healthy eating plans allow for one or two small snacks a day. Choosing most fruits and vegetables will allow you to eat a snack with only 100 calories.

About 100 Calories or Less

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * a medium-size apple (72 calories)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * a medium-size banana (105 calories)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 1 cup steamed green beans (44 calories)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 1 cup blueberries (83 calories)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 1 cup grapes (100 calories)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 1 cup carrots (45 calories), broccoli (30 calories), or bell peppers (30 calories) with 2 tbsp. hummus (46 calories)

Learn more about What Counts as a Cup.

What counts as a cup of vegetables?external icon  
What counts as a cup of fruit?external icon

Instead of a high-calorie snack from a vending machine, bring some cut-up
vegetables or fruit from home. A 1-ounce bag of corn chips has as many
calories as a small apple, 1 cup of whole strawberries, AND 1 cup of carrots
with 1/4 cup of low-calorie dip. Substitute one or two of these options for
the chips, and you will have a satisfying snack with fewer calories.

#### Remember: Substitution is the key.

![photo of fruits and vegetables](/healthyweight/images/healthy-
eating/substitution.jpg)

It's true that fruits and vegetables are lower in calories than many other
foods, but they do contain some calories. If you start eating fruits and
vegetables in addition to what you usually eat, you are adding calories and
may gain weight. The key is substitution. Eat fruits and vegetables instead of
some other higher-calorie food.

### More Tips for Making Fruits and Vegetables Part of Your Weight Management
Plan

**Eat fruits and vegetables the way nature provided --or with fat-free or low-
fat cooking techniques.  
**Try steaming your vegetables, using low-calorie or low-fat dressings, and
using herbs and spices to add flavor. Some cooking techniques, such as
breading and frying, or using high-fat dressings or sauces will greatly
increase the calories and fat in the dish. And eat your fruit raw to enjoy its
natural sweetness.

**Canned or frozen fruits and vegetables are also good options.  
**Frozen or canned fruits and vegetables can be just as nutritious as the
fresh varieties. However, be careful to choose those without added sugar,
syrup, cream sauces, or other ingredients that will add calories.

**Choose whole fruit over fruit drinks and juices. Fruit juices have lost
fiber from the fruit.**  
It is better to eat the whole fruit because it contains the added fiber that
helps you feel full. One 6-ounce serving of orange juice has 85 calories,
compared to just 65 calories in a medium orange.

**Whole fruit gives you a bigger size snack than the same fruit dried --for
the same number of calories.  
**A small box of raisins (1/4 cup) is about 100 calories. For the same number
of calories, you can eat 1 cup of grapes.

Top of Page

Related Resources

 _Start Simple with MyPlate_ external icon provides tips for developing a
personalized plan within your food preferences, health goals, and budget.

Page last reviewed: January 31, 2020

Content source: Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity,
National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion

home Healthy Weight

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Assessing Your Weight expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Body Mass Index (BMI)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About Adult BMI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adult BMI Calculator expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Metric Version
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About Child & Teen BMI expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Measuring Childrenâs Height and Weight Accurately At Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Child & Teen BMI Calculator
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Childrenâs BMI Tool for Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Finding a Balance expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other Factors in Weight Gain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventing Weight Gain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Losing Weight expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Getting Started
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Improving Your Eating Habits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Keeping It Off
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Healthy Eating for a Healthy Weight expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Planning Meals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cutting Calories expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Eat More, Weigh Less?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Rethink Your Drink
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Portion Pitfalls
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Using Fruits & Vegetables to Manage Your Weight
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthy Recipes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Physical Activity for a Healthy Weight expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Getting Started
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tips for Parents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Health Effects of Overweight & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * External Resources

ï»¿

email_03Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this topic, enter your email address.

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity

![DNPAO logo](/nccdphp/dnpao/images/home/dnpao-links-logo_187px.png)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nutrition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Physical Activity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Overweight & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Healthy Weight
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Breastfeeding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Micronutrient Malnutrition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State and Local Programs

Related Topics

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nutrition

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

