

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Healthy Weight

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# About Adult BMI

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

**On This Page**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What is BMI?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * How is BMI used?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What are the BMI trends for adults in the United States?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Why is BMI used to measure overweight and obesity?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What are some of the other ways to assess excess body fatness besides BMI?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * How is BMI calculated?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * How is BMI interpreted for adults?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Is BMI interpreted the same way for children and teens as it is for adults?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * How good is BMI as an indicator of body fatness?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * If an athlete or other person with a lot of muscle has a BMI over 25, is that person still considered to be overweight?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What are the health consequences of obesity for adults?

###  What is BMI?

BMI is a person's weight in kilograms divided by the square of height in
meters. BMI does not measure body fat directly, but research has shown that
BMI is moderately correlated with more direct measures of body fat obtained
from skinfold thickness measurements, bioelectrical impedance, densitometry
(underwater weighing), dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) and other
methods 1,2,3. Furthermore, BMI appears to be as strongly correlated with
various metabolic and disease outcome as are these more direct measures of
body fatness 4,5,6,7,8,9. In general, BMI is an inexpensive and easy-to-
perform method of screening for weight category, for example underweight,
normal or healthy weight, overweight, and obesity.

  
![ BMI Calculator for
Adults](/healthyweight/images/assessing/adults_calculator.jpg)

Adult BMI Calculator

###  How is BMI used?

A high BMI can be an indicator of high body fatness. BMI can be used as a
screening tool but is not diagnostic of the body fatness or health of an
individual.

To determine if a high BMI is a health risk, a healthcare provider would need
to perform further assessments. These assessments might include skinfold
thickness measurements, evaluations of diet, physical activity, family
history, and other appropriate health screenings10.

###  What are the BMI trends for adults in the United States?

The prevalence of adult BMI greater than or equal to 30 kg/m2 (obese status)
has greatly increased since the 1970s. Recently, however, this trend has
leveled off, except for older women. Obesity has continued to increase in
adult women who are age 60 years and older.

To learn more about the trends of adult obesity, visit Adult Obesity Facts.

Top of Page

###  Why is BMI used to measure overweight and obesity?

BMI can be used for population assessment of overweight and obesity. Because
calculation requires only height and weight, it is inexpensive and easy to use
for clinicians and for the general public. BMI can be used as a screening tool
for body fatness but is not diagnostic.

To see the formula based on either kilograms and meters or pounds and inches,
visit How is BMI calculated?

Top of Page

###  What are some of the other ways to assess excess body fatness besides
BMI?

Other methods to measure body fatness include skinfold thickness measurements
(with calipers), underwater weighing, bioelectrical impedance, dual-energy
x-ray absorptiometry (DXA), and isotope dilution 1,2,3. However, these methods
are not always readily available, and they are either expensive or need to be
conducted by highly trained personnel. Furthermore, many of these methods can
be difficult to standardize across observers or machines, complicating
comparisons across studies and time periods.

Top of Page

###  How is BMI calculated?

BMI is calculated the same way for both adults and children. The calculation
is based on the following formulas:

BMI is calculated the same way for both adults and children. The calculation
is based on the following formulas: Measurement Units | Formula and
Calculation  
---|---  
Kilograms and meters (or centimeters) | Formula: weight (kg) / [height (m)]2

With the metric system, the formula for BMI is weight in kilograms divided by
height in meters squared. Because height is commonly measured in centimeters,
divide height in centimeters by 100 to obtain height in meters.

Example: Weight = 68 kg, Height = 165 cm (1.65 m)  
Calculation: 68 ÷ (1.65)2 = 24.98  
  
Pounds and inches | Formula: weight (lb) / [height (in)]2 x 703

Calculate BMI by dividing weight in pounds (lbs) by height in inches (in)
squared and multiplying by a conversion factor of 703.

Example: Weight = 150 lbs, Height = 5'5″ (65″)  
Calculation: [150 ÷ (65)2] x 703 = 24.96  
  
Top of Page

###  How is BMI interpreted for adults?

For adults 20 years old and older, BMI is interpreted using standard weight
status categories. These categories are the same for men and women of all body
types and ages.

The standard weight status categories associated with BMI ranges for adults
are shown in the following table.

The standard weight status categories associated with BMI ranges for adults
are shown in the following table. BMI | Weight Status  
---|---  
Below 18.5 | Underweight  
18.5 - 24.9 | Normal or Healthy Weight  
25.0 - 29.9 | Overweight  
30.0 and Above | Obese  
  
For example, here are the weight ranges, the corresponding BMI ranges, and the
weight status categories for a person who is 5′ 9″.

For example, here are the weight ranges, the corresponding BMI ranges, and the
weight status categories for a person who is 5′ 9″. Height | Weight Range |
BMI | **Weight Status**  
---|---|---|---  
5′ 9″ | 124 lbs or less | Below 18.5 | Underweight  
125 lbs to 168 lbs | 18.5 to 24.9 | Normal or Healthy Weight  
169 lbs to 202 lbs | 25.0 to 29.9 | Overweight  
203 lbs or more | 30 or higher | Obese  
  
Top of Page

For children and teens, the interpretation of BMI depends upon age and sex.
For more information about interpretation for children and teens, read - What
is a BMI percentile and how is it interpreted?

###  Is BMI interpreted the same way for children and teens as it is for
adults?

BMI is interpreted differently for children and teens, even though it is
calculated using the same formula as adult BMI. Children and teen's BMI need
to be age and sex-specific because the amount of body fat changes with age and
the amount of body fat differs between girls and boys. The CDC BMI-for-age
growth charts take into account these differences and visually show BMI as a
percentile ranking. These percentiles were determined using representative
data of the U.S. population of 2- to 19-year-olds that was collected in
various surveys from 1963-65 to 1988-9411.

Obesity among 2- to 19-year-olds is defined as a BMI at or above the 95th
percentile of children of the same age and sex in this 1963 to 1994 reference
population. For example, a 10-year-old boy of average height (56 inches) who
weighs 102 pounds would have a BMI of 22.9 kg/m2. This would place the boy in
the 95th percentile for BMI - meaning that his BMI is greater than that of 95%
of similarly aged boys in this reference population - and he would be
considered to have obesity.

For more information and to access the CDC Growth Charts

For adults, the interpretation of BMI does not depend on sex or age. Read more
about interpreting adult BMI.

Top of Page

###  How good is BMI as an indicator of body fatness?

The correlation between the BMI and body fatness is fairly strong1,2,3,7, but
even if 2 people have the same BMI, their level of body fatness may differ12.

In general,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * At the same BMI, women tend to have more body fat than men.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * At the same BMI, Blacks have less body fat than do Whites13,14, and Asians have more body fat than do Whites15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * At the same BMI, older people, on average, tend to have more body fat than younger adults.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * At the same BMI, athletes have less body fat than do non-athletes.

The accuracy of BMI as an indicator of body fatness also appears to be higher
in persons with higher levels of BMI and body fatness16. While, a person with
a very high BMI (e.g., 35 kg/m2) is very likely to have high body fat, a
relatively high BMI can be the results of either high body fat or high lean
body mass (muscle and bone). A trained healthcare provider should perform
appropriate health assessments in order to evaluate an individual's health
status and risks.

Top of Page

###  If an athlete or other person with a lot of muscle has a BMI over 25, is
that person still considered to be overweight?

According to the BMI weight status categories, anyone with a BMI between 25
and 29.9 would be classified as overweight and anyone with a BMI over 30 would
be classified as obese.

However, athletes may have a high BMI because of increased muscularity rather
than increased body fatness. In general, a person who has a high BMI is likely
to have body fatness and would be considered to be overweight or obese, but
this may not apply to athletes. A trained healthcare provider should perform
appropriate health assessments in order to evaluate an individual's health
status and risks.

Top of Page

###  What are the health consequences of obesity for adults?

People who have obesity are at increased risk for many diseases and health
conditions, including the following: 10, 17, 18

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * All-causes of death (mortality)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * High blood pressure (Hypertension)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * High LDL cholesterol, low HDL cholesterol, or high levels of triglycerides (Dyslipidemia)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Type 2 diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Coronary heart disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Stroke
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Gallbladder disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Osteoarthritis (a breakdown of cartilage and bone within a joint)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sleep apnea and breathing problems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Chronic inflammation and increased oxidative stress19,20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Some cancers (endometrial, breast, colon, kidney, gallbladder, and liver)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Low quality of life
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mental illness such as clinical depression, anxiety, and other mental disorders21,22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Body pain and difficulty with physical functioning23

For more information about these and other health problems associated with
obesity, visit Health Effects

Top of Page

References

1Garrow, J.S. & Webster, J., 1985. Quetelet's index (W/H2) as a measure of
fatness. _Int. J. Obes_., 9(2), pp.147-153.

2Freedman, D.S., Horlick, M. & Berenson, G.S., 2013. A comparison of the
Slaughter skinfold-thickness equations and BMI in predicting body fatness and
cardiovascular disease risk factor levels in children. _Am. J. Clin. Nutr._ ,
98(6), pp.1417-24.

3Wohlfahrt-Veje, C. et al., 2014. Body fat throughout childhood in 2647
healthy Danish children: agreement of BMI, waist circumference, skinfolds with
dual X-ray absorptiometry. _Eur. J. Clin. Nutr._ , 68(6), pp.664-70.

4Steinberger, J. et al., 2005. Comparison of body fatness measurements by BMI
and skinfolds vs dual energy X-ray absorptiometry and their relation to
cardiovascular risk factors in adolescents. _Int. J. Obes._ , 29(11),
pp.1346-1352.

5Sun, Q. et al., 2010. Comparison of dual-energy x-ray absorptiometric and
anthropometric measures of adiposity in relation to adiposity-related biologic
factors. _Am. J. Epidemiol._ , 172(12), pp.1442-1454.

6Lawlor, D.A. et al., 2010. Association between general and central adiposity
in childhood, and change in these, with cardiovascular risk factors in
adolescence: prospective cohort study. _BMJ_ , 341, p.c6224.

7Flegal, K.M. & Graubard, B.I., 2009. Estimates of excess deaths associated
with body mass index and other anthropometric variables. _Am. J. Clin. Nutr._
, 89(4), pp.1213-1219.

8Freedman, D.S. et al., 2009. Relation of body mass index and skinfold
thicknesses to cardiovascular disease risk factors in children: the Bogalusa
Heart Study. _Am. J. Clin. Nutr_., 90(1), pp.210-216.

9Willett, K. et al., 2006. Comparison of bioelectrical impedance and BMI in
predicting obesity-related medical conditions. _Obes. (Silver Spring)_ ,
14(3), pp.480-490.

10NHLBI. 2013. Managing Overweight and Obesity in Adults: Systematic Evidence
Review from the Obesity Expert PanelCdc-pdfExternal[PDF - 5.98MB]

11Kuczmarski, R.J. et al., 2002. 2000 CDC Growth Charts for the United States:
methods and development. _Vital Health Stat_. 11., 11(246), pp.1-190.

12Prentice, A.M. & Jebb, S.A., 2001. Beyond body mass index. _Obes. Rev_.,
2(3), pp.141-7.

13Wagner, D.R. & Heyward, V.H., 2000. Measures of body composition in blacks
and whites: a comparative review. _Am. J. Clin. Nutr_., 71(6), pp.1392-1402.

14Flegal, K.M. et al., 2010. High adiposity and high body mass index-for-age
in US children and adolescents overall and by race-ethnic group. _Am. J. Clin.
Nutr_., 91(4), pp.1020-6.

15Barba, C. et al., 2004. Appropriate body-mass index for Asian populations
and its implications for policy and intervention strategies. _Lancet_ ,
363(9403), pp.157-163.

16Bray, G.A. et al., 2001. Evaluation of body fat in fatter and leaner
10-y-old African American and white children: the Baton Rouge Children's
Study. _Am. J. Clin. Nutr_., 73(4), pp.687-702.

17Clinical Guidelines on the Identification, Evaluation, and Treatment of
Overweight and Obesity in Adults Cdc-pdf[PDF - 1.25MB]External.

18Bhaskaran K, Douglas I, Forbes H, dos-Santos-Silva I, Leon DA, Smeeth L.
Body-mass index and risk of 22 specific cancers: a population-based cohort
study of 5•24 million UK adults. Lancet. 2014 Aug 30;384(9945):755-65. doi:
10.1016/S0140-6736(14)60892-8. Epub 2014 Aug 13.

19Engstrom G, Hedblad B, Stavenow L, Lind P, Janzon L and Lingarde F.
Inflammation- sensitive plasma proteins are associated with future weight
gain. Diabetes. Aug 2003; 52(08): 2097-101.

20Marseglia L, Manti S, D'Angelo G, Nicotera A, Parisi E, DiRosa G, Gitto E,
Arrigo T. Oxidative stress in obesity: a critical component in human diseases.
International Journal of Molecular Sciences. Dec 2014; 16(1):378-400.

21Kasen, Stephanie, et al. "Obesity and psychopathology in women: a three
decade prospective study." _International Journal of Obesity_ 32.3 (2008):
558-566.

22Luppino, Floriana S., et al. "Overweight, obesity, and depression: a
systematic review and meta-analysis of longitudinal studies." _Archives of
general psychiatry_ 67.3 (2010): 220-229.

23Han, T. S., et al. "Quality of life in relation to overweight and body fat
distribution." _American Journal of Public Health_ 88.12 (1998): 1814-1820.

Page last reviewed: August 29, 2017

Content source: Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity,
National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion

home Healthy Weight

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Assessing Your Weight expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Body Mass Index (BMI)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About Adult BMI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adult BMI Calculator expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Metric Version
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About Child & Teen BMI expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Measuring Childrenâs Height and Weight Accurately At Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Child & Teen BMI Calculator
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Childrenâs BMI Tool for Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Finding a Balance expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other Factors in Weight Gain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventing Weight Gain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Losing Weight expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Getting Started
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Improving Your Eating Habits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Keeping It Off
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Healthy Eating for a Healthy Weight expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Planning Meals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cutting Calories expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Eat More, Weigh Less?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Rethink Your Drink
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Portion Pitfalls
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Using Fruits & Vegetables to Manage Your Weight
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthy Recipes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Physical Activity for a Healthy Weight expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Getting Started
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tips for Parents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Health Effects of Overweight & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * External Resources

ï»¿

email_03Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this topic, enter your email address.

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity

![DNPAO logo](/nccdphp/dnpao/images/home/dnpao-links-logo_187px.png)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nutrition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Physical Activity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Overweight & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Healthy Weight
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Breastfeeding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Micronutrient Malnutrition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State and Local Programs

Related Topics

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nutrition

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

