

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Healthcare-associated Infections

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# _Klebsiella pneumoniae_ in Healthcare Settings

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * How Klebsiella bacteria are spread
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventing Klebsiella from spreading
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drug-resistant Klebsiella
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treating Klebsiella infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What should patients do if they think they have a Klebsiella-related illness?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What should patients do if they have been diagnosed with a Klebsiella-related illness?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * How would someone know if their Klebsiella infection is drug-resistant?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Can a Klebsiella infection spread to the patient's family members?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Recommendations and Guidelines

![Guidance for Control of Carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae \(CRE\) -
2012 CRE Toolkit](/hai/images/cre-toolkit.gif)

Carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae (CRE) pdf icon[PDF - 24 pages]

### General Information

_Klebsiella_ [kleb−see−ell−uh] is a type of Gram-negative bacteria that can
cause different types of healthcare-associated infections, including
pneumonia, bloodstream infections, wound or surgical site infections, and
meningitis. Increasingly, _Klebsiella_ bacteria have developed antimicrobial
resistance, most recently to the class of antibiotics known as carbapenems.
_Klebsiella_ bacteria are normally found in the human intestines (where they
do not cause disease). They are also found in human stool (feces). In
healthcare settings, _Klebsiella_ infections commonly occur among sick
patients who are receiving treatment for other conditions. Patients whose care
requires devices like ventilators (breathing machines) or intravenous (vein)
catheters, and patients who are taking long courses of certain antibiotics are
most at risk for _Klebsiella_ infections. Healthy people usually do not get
_Klebsiella_ infections.

 Top of Page

### How _Klebsiella_ bacteria are spread

To get a _Klebsiella_ infection, a person must be exposed to the bacteria. For
example, _Klebsiella_ must enter the respiratory (breathing) tract to cause
pneumoniae, or the blood to cause a bloodstream infection.

In healthcare settings, _Klebsiella_ bacteria can be spread through person-to-
person contact (for example, from patient to patient via the contaminated
hands of healthcare personnel, or other persons) or, less commonly, by
contamination of the environment. The bacteria are not spread through the air.

Patients in healthcare settings also may be exposed to _Klebsiella_ when they
are on ventilators (breathing machines), or have intravenous (vein) catheters
or wounds (caused by injury or surgery). Unfortunately, these medical tools
and conditions may allow _Klebsiella_ to enter the body and cause infection.

 Top of Page

### Preventing _Klebsiella_ from spreading

To prevent spreading _Klebsiella_ infections between patients, healthcare
personnel must follow specific infection control precautions (see: Guideline
for Isolation Precautions: Preventing Transmission of Infectious Agents in
Healthcare Settings 2007). These precautions may include strict adherence to
hand hygiene and wearing gowns and gloves when they enter rooms where patients
with _Klebsiella_ -related illnesses are housed. Healthcare facilities also
must follow strict cleaning procedures to prevent the spread of _Klebsiella_.

To prevent the spread of infections, patients also should clean their hands
very often, including:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Before preparing or eating food
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Before touching their eyes, nose, or mouth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Before and after changing wound dressings or bandages
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * After using the restroom
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * After blowing their nose, coughing, or sneezing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * After touching hospital surfaces such as bed rails, bedside tables, doorknobs, remote controls, or the phone

 Top of Page

### Drug-resistant _Klebsiella_

Some _Klebsiella_ bacteria have become highly resistant to antibiotics. When
bacteria such as _Klebsiella pneumoniae_ produce an enzyme known as a
carbapenemase (referred to as KPC-producing organisms), then the class of
antibiotics called carbapenems will not work to kill the bacteria and treat
the infection. Klebsiella species are examples of Enterobacteriaceae, a normal
part of the human gut bacteria, that can become carbapenem-resistant.  
CRE, which stands for carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae, are a family of
germs that are difficult to treat because they have high levels of resistance
to antibiotics. Unfortunately, carbapenem antibiotics often are the last line
of defense against Gram-negative infections that are resistant to other
antibiotics.

 Top of Page

### Treating _Klebsiella_ infections

_Klebsiella_ infections that are not drug-resistant can be treated with
antibiotics. Infections caused by KPC-producing bacteria can be difficult to
treat because fewer antibiotics are effective against them. In such cases, a
microbiology laboratory must run tests to determine which antibiotics will
treat the infection.

 Top of Page

### What should patients do if they think they have a _Klebsiella -related
illness_?

See a healthcare provider.

### What should patients do if they have been diagnosed with a _Klebsiella
-related illness_?

They must follow the treatment regimen prescribed by the healthcare provider.
If the healthcare provider prescribes an antibiotic, patients must take it
exactly as the healthcare provider instructs. Patients must complete the
prescribed course of medication, even if symptoms are gone. If treatment stops
too soon, some bacteria may survive and the patient may become re-infected.
Patients must wash their hands as often as possible and follow all other
hygiene recommendations.

 Top of Page

### How would someone know if their _Klebsiella_ infection is drug-resistant?

The healthcare provider will order laboratory tests to determine if the
_Klebsiella_ infection is drug-resistant.

 Top of Page

### Can a _Klebsiella_ infection spread to the patient's family members?

If family members are healthy, they are at very low risk of acquiring a
_Klebsiella_ infection. It is still necessary to follow all precautions,
particularly hand hygiene. _Klebsiella_ bacteria are spread mostly by person-
to-person contact and hand hygiene is the best way to prevent the spread of
germs.

 Top of Page

### Recommendations and Guidelines

For more information about prevention and treatment of HAIs, see the resources
below:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Siegel JD, Rhinehart E, Jackson M, Chiarello L, and the Healthcare Infection Control Practices Advisory Committee, 2007 Guideline for Isolation Precautions: Preventing Transmission of Infectious Agents in Healthcare Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidance for Control of Infections with Carbapenem-Resistant or Carbapenemase-Producing Enterobacteriaceae in Acute Care Facilities MMWR March 20, 2009 / 58(10);256-260

Page last reviewed: November 24, 2010

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Healthcare
Quality Promotion (DHQP)

home Healthcare-associated Infections (HAI)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * HAI Dataplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Data Portalplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Current HAI Progress Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Progress Report FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Antibiotic Resistance & Patient Safety Portal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Patient Safety Atlas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Data Archiveplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2017 HAI Progress Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 HAI Progress Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Data Summary: Assessing Progress 2006-2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2015 HAI Data Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2015 SIRs Using Historical Baselines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2014 HAI Progress Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Technical Appendix for _Stop Spread of Antibiotic Resistance_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Types of Infectionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Central Line-associated Bloodstream Infectionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Resources for Patients & Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * FAQs about Catheters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Surgical Site Infectionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * FAQs about SSIs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Catheter-associated Urinary Tract Infectionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * FAQs about CAUTI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ventilator-associated Pneumoniaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * FAQs about VAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diseases and Organismsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Acinetobacter_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Burkholderia cepacia_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Clostridioides difficile_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Clostridium Sordellii_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae (CRE)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Clinicians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Healthcare Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Public Health Departments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CRE Technical Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tracking CRE in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ESBL-producing Enterobacteriaceae
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gram-negative Bacteria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * HIVplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Occupationally Acquired HIV/AIDS in Healthcare Personnel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Klebsiella_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MRSA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nontuberculous Mycobacteria (NTM)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Clinicians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Healthcare Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Health Departments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Mycobacterium abscessus_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Norovirus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Pseudomonas aeruginosa_ plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tracking Carbapenem-Resistant _Pseudomonas aeruginosa_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Staphylococcus aureus_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tuberculosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * VISA / VRSA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vancomycin-resistant Enterococci (VRE) in Healthcare Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventing HAIsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Staph BSI Prevention Strategies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDI Prevention Strategies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Urine Culture Stewardshipplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Patients with Indwelling Urinary Catheterplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Survey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Structure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Strategize
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sustain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Patients without Indwelling Urinary Catheter 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Targeted Assessment for Prevention (TAP)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TAP CAUTI Implementation Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TAP CDI Implementation Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * TAP CLABSI Implementation Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infection Prevention Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prevention Toolkitsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Options for Evaluating Environmental Cleaning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Appendices to the Conceptual Program Model for Environmental Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Basic Infection Control and Prevention Plan for Outpatient Oncology Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Appendices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Outpatient Care Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tools for Protecting Healthcare Personnelplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * PPE Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infection Control Assessment Tools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthcare Environmental Infection Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Reduce Risk from Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Environmental Cleaning in Resource-Limited Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Containment Strategyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * What Can Be Done
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Case Studies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * PPE in Nursing Homesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State-based HAI Prevention Activitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State HAI Plans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * States with HAI Reporting Mandates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * HAI/AR Accreditation Crosswalkplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Acronyms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Domain 1: Assess
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Domain 2: Investigate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Domain 3: Inform and Educate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Domain 4: Community Engagement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Domain 5: Policies and Plans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Domain 6: Public Health Laws
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Domain 7: Access to Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Domain 8: Workforce
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Domain 9: Quality Improvement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Domain 10: Evidence-based Practices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Domain 11: Administration and Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Domain 12: Governance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Resources for Statesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Data Use Agreement (DUA) Announcement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * DUA FAQs for Health Departments and Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * ELC HAI/AR Program Funded Activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Grantee Meeting Presentations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * State Policy Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Supported Projects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prevention Epicenters (PE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthcare Safety Research (SHEPheRD)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Environmental Hygiene in Healthcare
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Modeling Infectious Diseases in Healthcare Network (MInD â Healthcare)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Patient Safetyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Antibiotic Resistant Germs in Hospitals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Outpatient Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reference AST Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Multiplex Real-Time PCR Detection of KPC & NDM-1 genes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Quinolones and the Clinical Lab
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * VRE and the Clinical Laboratory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Detection of Imipenem or Meropenem-resistance in Gram-negative Organisms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Detection of: Oxacillin/MRSA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Detection of VISA/VRSAplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * S.E.A.R.C.H.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Labs Role in the Search and Containment of VRSA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Detection of Coagulase-negative _Staphylococcus_ species with Decreased Susceptibility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * VISA/VRSA Lab Testing Algorithm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Use of an Inferred PFGE Algorithm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Inferred Identification of Pulsed Field Types based on MLST clonal complex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Outbreak and Patient Notificationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _B. cepacia_ â Saline Flush
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Contaminated Heater-Cooler Devices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _B. cepacia_ â Docusate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Statement LA CRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stem Cell and Exosome Products
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Pseudomonas aeruginosa_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Multistate Meningitis Outbreakplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Meningitis Case Counts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Meningitis State Facilities Map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Resources for Clinicians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Resources for Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Resources for Laboratories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Microscopic Gallery of Pathologic Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Outbreaks in Outpatient Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2007-2009 (Archived)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Outbreak Resources for State Health Departmentsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Evaluating an Infection Control Breach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Outbreak Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC HAI Commentaries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Digital Press Kitsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Get Smart About Antibiotics Week 2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nearly half a million Americans suffer from _C. difficile_ infections in single year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MRSA study: simple steps slash deadly infections in sickest hospital patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Modeling Predicts Growth of Drug-resistant Infections and _C. difficile_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Lethal, Drug-resistant Bacteria Spreading in U.S. Healthcare Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hospital Infections: Some Progress, but More Work Needed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Flow Restrictors May Help Prevent Medication Poisonings in Young Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Impact of Unsafe Injection Practices in U.S. Healthcare Settings

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

