

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Parasites â _Acanthamoeba_ â Granulomatous Amebic Encephalitis (GAE);
Keratitis

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# _Acanthamoeba_ \- Granulomatous Amebic Encephalitis (GAE); Keratitis

Minus

Related Pages

![Acanthamoeba microorganisms under a
microscope](/parasites/acanthamoeba/images/acanthamoeba-banner.jpg)

_Acanthamoeba_ is a microscopic, free-living ameba, or amoeba* (single-celled
living organism), that can cause rare**, but severe infections of the eye,
skin, and central nervous system. The ameba is found worldwide in the
environment in water and soil. The ameba can be spread to the eyes through
contact lens use, cuts, or skin wounds or by being inhaled into the lungs.
Most people will be exposed to _Acanthamoeba_ during their lifetime, but very
few will become sick from this exposure. The three diseases caused by
_Acanthamoeba_ are:

_Acanthamoeba_ keratitis - An infection of the eye that typically occurs in
healthy persons and can result in permanent visual impairment or blindness.

Granulomatous Amebic Encephalitis (GAE) - A serious infection of the brain and
spinal cord that typically occurs in persons with a compromised immune system.

Disseminated infection - A widespread infection that can affect the skin,
sinuses, lungs, and other organs independently or in combination. It is also
more common in persons with a compromised immune system.

_Image: This photomicrograph depicted a magnified view of brain tissue within
which was a centrally located_ Acanthamoeba _sp. cyst.  _ _Credit:DPDx_

Edit_01

General Information

Frequently asked questions...

Lab_04

Pathogen & Environment

Stages of parasite development...

Lab_05

Diagnosis & Detection

Laboratory testing, identification...

Lab_02

Prevention & Control

How to stay healthy and prevent infection...

Medical_03

Illness & Symptoms

Signs, symptoms, and outcomes...

Search_02

Sources of Infection & Risk Factors

Who gets infected and how...

Lab_03

Treatment

Medication...

***About the Term "Ameba"**  
In U.S. English, the single-celled living organism described here is an
_ameba._ The word _amoeba,_ with an "o", is used as part of a scientific genus
name (such as _Amoeba_ or _Acanthamoeba_ ). In British English, both the
generic organism term and genera names are spelled _amoeba_ with an "o".

****Rare Disease**  
There is no universal definition of a "rare disease" but the U.S. Rare Disease
Act of 2002External defined a rare disease as affecting less than 200,000
people in the U.S. and this definition has been adopted by the National
Institutes of Health, Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Centers.External

Information for Specific Groups

![information for specific groups](/parasites/acanthamoeba/images/specific-
groups.jpg)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Information for Medical Professionals

Publications, Data, & Statistics

![Publications, Data, & Statistics](/parasites/acanthamoeba/images/data-stats-
img.jpg)

Healthy Water Sites

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Healthy Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Drinking Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthy Swimming
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global WASH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other Uses of Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * WASH-related Emergencies & Outbreaks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Water, Sanitation, & Environmentally-related Hygiene

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Parasites Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Parasites A-Z Index
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory Diagnostic Assistance [DPDx]

Social_govd govD  Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Page last reviewed: June 5, 2017

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Foodborne,
Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases (DFWED)

home _Acanthamoeba_

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General Information expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Acanthamoeba_ FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Acanthamoeba_ Keratitis FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Illness & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pathogen & Environment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sources of Infection & Risk Factors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosis & Detection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevention & Control expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Microbial Keratitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Granulomatous Amebic Encephalitis (GAE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Information for Medical Professionals expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Acanthamoeba_ Keratitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Images of _Acanthamoeba_ Keratitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Outbreak Investigations expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2011 Investigation expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Investigation FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2007 Investigation expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Outbreak Investigation FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Check Your Medicine Cabinet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publications, Data, & Statistics

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

image/svg+xml edit_01 edit_01 lab_04  lab_05  lab_02  medical_03  search_02
lab_03  file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

