

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Epilepsy

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Find Support

Minus

Related Pages

![Older black man carries small boy on shoulders in the
park](/epilepsy/images/grandfather-and-grandson-600px-small.jpg)

Find support to help you manage epilepsy.

Epilepsy can be hard to manage and may interfere with daily life. Use the free
resources below to help you or someone you love manage living with epilepsy.

### **Call the 24/7 helpline when you have questions**

CDC supports the Epilepsy Foundation's 24/7 Helpline, which has trained
information specialists to answer questions about epilepsy and seizures and
can link you to resources in your community. The Helpline can assist people
living with epilepsy, caregivers, friends, or anyone who wants to learn more
about epilepsy. **Calls are answered 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, in English
and Spanish.**

Call the **Toll-Free Helpline: 1-800-332-1000 (en Espa ñol 1-866-748-8008).**

Visit the **Epilepsy Foundation's 24/7 Helpline pageExternal** to learn more.

### **Connect with others online for community support and advice**

CDC supports the Epilepsy Foundation's Community Forum, a place to discuss
topics such as living with epilepsy, medicine side effects, medical tests, and
treatments. There are sections for men, women, teens, veterans, parents,
caregivers, and friends.  **Visit the  Epilepsy Foundation's Community
ForumExternal to join the virtual community.**

### **Get help paying for medicine**

Do you need help paying for medicine? The Epilepsy Foundation has put together
a list of Patient Assistance Programs that offer some medicines at a discount
or for free to people who cannot afford them.  **Learn more at theEpilepsy
Foundation's Patient Assistance pageExternal.**

### **Find mental health resources and tools**

If you have questions or concerns about where to get help for mental health in
children or adults, these free and confidential resources will help you or a
loved one connect with a skilled, trained counselor in your area.
**FindMental Health Treatment Resources.**

### **Find online information or community events**

Check out the **Epilepsy Foundation's National and Community Resources
pageExternal **for special events, webinars, and links to local Epilepsy
Foundation offices and other organizations.

Page last reviewed: February 25, 2019

Content source: National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health
Promotion , Division of Population Health

home Epilepsy

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Epilepsyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Seizure First Aid
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fast Facts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Types of Seizures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SUDEPplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * SUDEP Information for Parents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Managing Epilepsyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Managing Epilepsy Well Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Find Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Parent Toolkitplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Parentâs Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Facilitatorâs Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Resource Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clinical Trials 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventing Epilepsy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research and Surveillanceplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MEW Network
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Epidemiologic Research Projects 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC Addresses Epilepsy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Scientific Articlesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Scientific Articles by Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Links to Other Websites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Info for Specific Groupsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Parents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Training for Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communications Centerplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Whatâs New
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Text Descriptions for Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Featuresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Spotlight on Seizures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sudden Unexpected Death in Epilepsy (SUDEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy Self-Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy in Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Get Seizure Smart!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy & Seizures in Older Adults
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Strokes May Lead to Epilepsy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy Can Follow Traumatic Brain Injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Get Email Updates

Social_govd govD Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about Epilepsy, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

