

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Epilepsy

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Frequently Asked Questions About Epilepsy

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

**Epilepsy Basics**

![graphic shows the silhouette of a person's head and neck, with question
marks at the top of the head.](/epilepsy/images/about/faq-150px.jpg)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. What is epilepsy? What is a seizure?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2. How long do seizures usually last?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3. What are the major types of seizures?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4. If I have a seizure, does that mean I have epilepsy?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5. What causes epilepsy?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6. Is epilepsy common?

**Preventing and Managing Epilepsy**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. How can I prevent epilepsy?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2. How is epilepsy diagnosed?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3. How is epilepsy treated?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4. Who treats epilepsy?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5. How do I find an epilepsy specialist?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6. What can I do to manage my epilepsy?

**Health and Safety Concerns**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. Are there special concerns for women who have epilepsy?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2. Can a person die from epilepsy?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3. If I have epilepsy, can I still drive a car?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4. If I have epilepsy, can I exercise and play sports?

* * *



### Epilepsy Basics

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. **What is epilepsy? What is a seizure?**

Epilepsy, which is sometimes called a _seizure disorder,_ is a disorder of the
brain. A person is diagnosed with epilepsy when they have had two or more
seizures.

A _seizure_ is a short change in normal brain activity.

Seizures are the main sign of epilepsy. Some seizures can look like staring
spells. Other seizures cause a person to fall, shake, and lose awareness of
what's going on around them.

 Top of Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2. **How long do seizures usually last?**

Usually, a seizure lasts from a few seconds to a few minutes. It depends on
the type of seizure.

 Top of Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3. **What are the major types of seizures?**

Sometimes it is hard to tell when a person is having a seizure. A person
having a seizure may seem confused or look like they are staring at something
that isn't there. Other seizures can cause a person to fall, shake, and become
unaware of what's going on around them.

Seizures are classified into two groups.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1. **Generalized seizures** affect both sides of the brain.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2. **Focal seizures** affect just one area of the brain. These seizures are also called partial seizures.

A person with epilepsy can have more than one kind of seizure. Read more about
types of seizures and what they look like.

 Top of Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4. **If I have a seizure, does that mean I have epilepsy?**

Not always. Seizures can also happen because of other medical problems. These
problems include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * A high fever.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Low blood sugar.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Alcohol or drug withdrawal.

 Top of Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5. **What causes epilepsy?**

Epilepsy can be caused by different conditions that affect a person's brain.
Some known causes include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Stroke.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Brain tumor.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Brain infection from parasites (malaria, neurocysticercosis), viruses (influenza, dengue, Zika), and bacteria.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Traumatic brain injury or head injury.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Loss of oxygen to the brain (for example, during birth).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Some genetic disorders (such as Down syndrome).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Other neurologic diseases (such as Alzheimer's disease).

For 2 in 3 people, the cause of epilepsy is unknown. This type of epilepsy is
called _cryptogenic_ or _idiopathic_.

Read more about the causes of epilepsy in the National Institute of
Neurological Disorders and Stroke publication: _Seizures and Epilepsy: Hope
Through Research_ External _ _.__

 Top of Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6. **Is epilepsy common?**

Epilepsy is one of the most common conditions affecting the brain.

When counting both children and adults in the United States:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * About 5.1 million people in the United States have a history of epilepsy.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About 3.4 million people in the United States have active epilepsy.

Learn more about Epilepsy in the United States.

 Top of Page

### Preventing and Managing Epilepsy

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. **How can I prevent epilepsy?**

Sometimes we can prevent epilepsy. These are some of the most common ways to
reduce your risk of developing epilepsy:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Have a healthy pregnancy **.** Some problems during pregnancy and childbirth may lead to epilepsy. Follow a prenatal care plan with your health care provider to keep you and your baby healthy.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevent brain injuries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Lower the chances of stroke and heart disease.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Be up-to-date on your vaccinations.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Wash your hands and prepare food safely to prevent infections such as cysticercosis.

Read more about epilepsy prevention.

 Top of Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2. **How is epilepsy diagnosed?**

A person who has a seizure for the first time should talk to a health care
provider, such as a doctor or nurse practitioner. The provider will talk to
the person about what happened, and look for the cause of the seizure. Many
people who have seizures take tests such as brain scans for a closer look at
what is going on. These tests do not hurt.

Learn more about how epilepsy is diagnosedExternal from the Department of
Veterans Affairs.

 Top of Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3. **How is epilepsy treated?**

There are many things a provider and person with epilepsy can do to stop or
lessen seizures.

The most common treatments for epilepsy are:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * **Medicine.  ** Anti-seizure drugs are medicines that limit the spread of seizures in the brain. A health care provider will change the amount of the medicine or prescribe a new drug if needed to find the best treatment plan. Medicines work for about 2 in 3 people with epilepsy.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * **Surgery**.  When seizures come from a single area of the brain (focal seizures), surgery to remove that area may stop future seizures or make them easier to control with medicine. Epilepsy surgery is mostly used when the seizure focus is located in the temporal lobe of the brain.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * **Other treatments**. When medicines do not work and surgery is not possible, other treatments can help. These include _vagus nerve stimulation_ , where an electrical device is placed, or implanted, under the skin on the upper chest to send signals to a large nerve in the neck. Another option is the _ketogenic diet_ , a high fat, low carbohydrate diet with limited calories.

Read more about the treatment options for epilepsy in the National Institute
of Neurological Disorders and Stroke publication: _Seizures and Epilepsy: Hope
Through Research_ External _ _.__

 Top of Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4. **Who treats epilepsy?**

Many kinds of health providers treat people with epilepsy. Primary care
providers such as family physicians, pediatricians, and nurse practitioners
are often the first people to see a person with epilepsy who has new seizures.
These providers may make the diagnosis of epilepsy or they may talk with a
neurologist or epileptologist _._

A neurologist is a doctor who specializes in the brain and nervous system. An
epileptologist is a neurologist who specializes in epilepsy. When problems
occur such as seizures or side effects of medicine, the primary health
provider may send the patient to a neurologist or epileptologists for
specialized care.

People who have seizures that are difficult to control or who need advanced
care for epilepsy may be referred to an epilepsy centers. Epilepsy centers are
staffed by providers who specialize in epilepsy care, such as

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Epileptologists and neurologists.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Nurses.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Psychologists.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Technicians.

Many epilepsy centers work with university hospitals and researchers.

 Top of Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5. **How do I find an epilepsy specialist?**

There are several ways you can find a neurologist or an epileptologist near
you. Your primary care or family provider can tell you about types of
specialists.  The American Academy of NeurologyExternal  and the American
Epilepsy SocietyExternal provide a listing of its member neurologists and
epilepsy specialists, including epileptologists. The  National Association of
Epilepsy CentersExternal also provides a list of its member centers, organized
by state.

 Top of Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6. **What can I do to manage my epilepsy?**

Self-management is what you do to take care of yourself. You can learn how to
manage seizures and keep an active and full life. Begin with these tips:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Take your medicine.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Talk with your doctor or nurse when you have questions.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recognize seizure triggers (such as flashing or bright lights).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Keep a record of your seizures.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Get enough sleep.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Lower stress.

Learn more about managing epilepsy.

 Top of Page

### Health and Safety Concerns

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. **Are there special concerns for women who have epilepsy?**

Women who have epilepsy face special challenges. Hormonal changes can cause
some women with epilepsy to have more seizures during their period.

For women with epilepsy, there are also special concerns about pregnancy,
because having a seizure and taking certain drugs during pregnancy may
increase the risk of harm to the baby. Women can take the following steps
before and during pregnancy to lessen these risks.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * If you are a woman with epilepsy who plans to get pregnant, talk with your health team about how to best care for yourself and your baby.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Learn more about issues facing women with epilepsy and how to improve health on the Epilepsy Foundation's website, Women and EpilepsyExternal.

 Top of Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2. **Can a person die from epilepsy?**

Most people with epilepsy live a full life. However, the risk of early death
is higher for some. We know that the best possible seizure control and living
safely can reduce the risk of epilepsy-related death.

Factors that increase the risk of early death include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * More serious **health problems** , such as a stroke or a tumor. These conditions carry an increased risk of death and may cause seizures.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Falls or other injuries that happen because of seizures. These injuries can be life-threatening.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Seizures that last over 5 minutes. This is a condition called _status epilepticus_. Status epilepticus can sometimes happen when a person suddenly stops taking seizure medication.

Rarely, people with epilepsy can experience **s** udden **u** nexpected **d**
eath in **ep** ilepsy (SUDEP). SUDEP is not well understood and experts don't
know what causes it, but they suspect that it is sometimes due to a change in
heart beats (rhythm) during a seizure. Sudden death due to heart rhythm
changes also happens in people who do not have seizures.

The risk of sudden death is larger for people with major uncontrolled
seizures.

Read more information about SUDEP.

 Top of Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3. **If I have epilepsy, can I still drive a car?**

Most states and the District of Columbia will not issue a driver's license to
someone with epilepsy unless that person provides documentation that he or she
has not had a seizure for a specific amount of time. The seizure-free period
ranges from a few months to over a year, depending on the state.

Some states need a letter from your health provider to issue a license when a
person has seizures that:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * Don't distract the person from driving.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Happen only during sleep. These are called nocturnal seizures.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Have warning signs that alert the person that a seizure might happen. Sometimes a person feels strange before a seizure. This is called an aura.

Learn state-specific informationExternal about driving laws from the Epilepsy
Foundation.

 Top of Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4. **If I have epilepsy, can I exercise and play sports?**

Sometimes people with epilepsy worry that exercise or sports may worsen their
seizures.

Exercise is rarely a "trigger" for seizure activity. In fact, regular exercise
may improve seizure control. Safely playing sports can also be great for your
physical, mental, and emotional well-being.

It is always important to avoid sports-related injuries that can increase the
risk of seizures.

Read more about safe physical activity for people with epilepsy on the
Epilepsy Foundation website, Safety with Exercise and SportsExternal.

 Top of Page

Page last reviewed: January 4, 2019

Content source: National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health
Promotion , Division of Population Health

home Epilepsy

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Epilepsyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Seizure First Aid
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fast Facts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Types of Seizures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SUDEPplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * SUDEP Information for Parents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Managing Epilepsyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Managing Epilepsy Well Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Find Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Parent Toolkitplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Parentâs Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Facilitatorâs Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Resource Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clinical Trials 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventing Epilepsy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research and Surveillanceplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MEW Network
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Epidemiologic Research Projects 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC Addresses Epilepsy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Scientific Articlesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Scientific Articles by Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Links to Other Websites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Info for Specific Groupsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Parents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Training for Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communications Centerplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Whatâs New
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Text Descriptions for Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Featuresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Spotlight on Seizures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sudden Unexpected Death in Epilepsy (SUDEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy Self-Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy in Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Get Seizure Smart!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy & Seizures in Older Adults
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Strokes May Lead to Epilepsy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy Can Follow Traumatic Brain Injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Get Email Updates

Social_govd govD Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about Epilepsy, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

