

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Epilepsy

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Managing Epilepsy Well (MEW) Network

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About the MEW Network
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Programs in Action
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MEW Network Program Briefs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MEW Network Centers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Related Publications

### About the MEW Network

The Managing Epilepsy Well Network (MEW) was established in 2007 to advance
the science on epilepsy self-management by conducting high-quality research
across a network of universities, collaborating with community stakeholders to
implement activities, and broadly disseminating research findings. The MEW
Network addresses the _Living Well with Epilepsy (2003) Cdc-pdf[PDF-1.6MB]_
priority recommendations, and the Institute of Medicine Epilepsy Across the
SpectrumExternal 2012 recommendations related to accelerating, promoting, and
disseminating epilepsy self-management research. The MEW Network is one of
CDC's Prevention Research Centers Program thematic networks.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * To learn more, read _The Managing Epilepsy Well Network and Selected Self-Management Programs: Putting Collective Wisdom to Work for People with Epilepsy_ Cdc-pdf[PDF - 5 MB] report, or visit the MEW Network websiteExternal.

Programs in Action

In collaboration with local Epilepsy Foundation (EF) affiliates, MEW programs
have been delivered in communities across the United States. Starting in the
summer of 2018, the following programs will be offered:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Project UPLIFT, through EF of DelawareExternal, EF of Northeastern New YorkExternal, and EF Metropolitan WashingtonExternal.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * PACES, through EF of MichiganExternal, EF NorthwestExternal, and EF Central & South TexasExternal.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * HOBSCOTCH, through EF ConnecticutExternal, EF Greater ChicagoExternal, EF KentuckianaExternal, EF Central & South TexasExternal, and EF VirginiaExternal.

TIMEExternal is also being offered through a partnership between Case Western
Reserve University, the Epilepsy Association of Cleveland, and the Alcohol,
Drug Addiction and Mental Health Services (ADAMHS) Board of Cuyahoga County,
Ohio.

MEW Network Program Briefs

Learn about MEW network self-management programs.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Project UPLIFTExternal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * HOBSCOTCHExternal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * PACESExternal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TIMEExternal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * SMARTExternal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MINDSETExternal

MEW Network Centers

The MEW Network currently comprises one Coordinating Center (DartmouthExternal
College) and seven Collaborating Center members.

Legacy members include the following

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Emory UniversityExternal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * University of MichiganExternal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * University of Texas Health Sciences Center at HoustonExternal

 Top of Page

#### **Coordinating Center**

##### Dartmouth College

Dartmouth serves as the coordinating center for the MEW Network in
collaboration with Emory University. This team will facilitate communication
and collaboration across the MEW Network in the development, evaluation, and
dissemination of epilepsy self-management programs. Dartmouth will work with
the MEW Network to lead the development of guidelines for program
dissemination and models for the sustainability of programs.

Dartmouth will also continue to evaluate HOBSCOTCH (Home Based Self-management
and Cognitive Training Changes Lives), a promising self-management program for
adults with epilepsy and memory problems. Delivered by phone, HOBSCOTCH will
be disseminated to adults with epilepsy living in rural New England to
eliminate their barriers to care. Dartmouth will also examine the cost-
effectiveness of HOBSCOTCH.

Learn more about HOBSCOTCHExternal.

 Top of Page

#### **Collaborating Centers**

##### Case Western University

###### _SMART (Self-management for people with epilepsy and a history of
negative health events)_

SMART will be developed to improve self-management and quality of life for
adults with epilepsy with recent (past 6 months) negative health events (NHEs)
(e.g., seizure, hospitalization, ED visit, accident/traumatic injury, self-
harm attempt). The SMART study will enroll participants from lower-income
urban locations, safety-net health systems, and a Veterans Health Care System.
SMART will be delivered online, but will also include one or more group
sessions, telephone coaching, and peer support. SMART will be tested for its
feasibility, acceptability, and efficacy in people with epilepsy and NHEs.

Case-Western will also lead its efforts to develop an integrated database for
the MEW Network to expand opportunities to evaluate self-management outcomes
in people with epilepsy, and to facilitate possible future linkages to other
epilepsy databases.

Learn more about SMARTExternal.

 Top of Page

##### University of Arizona

###### _Evaluation of MINDSET for Hispanic-American adults with epilepsy_

The Management Information Decision Support Epilepsy Tool (MINDSET) was
developed as a tablet-based clinical aid for both the patient and health care
provider (HCP) to improve communication about self-management. MINDSET uses
data entered by the patient during a clinic visit to create a patient profile
and an action plan tailored to the patient's self- management needs. The
action plan includes recommended behavioral goals and strategies developed
jointly by the patient and provider during the clinic visit. The goal of this
project is to develop and test a Spanish version of MINDSET. Both the English
and Spanish version of MINDSET will be tested with patients attending four
clinic sites on the Arizona and Texas border.

Learn more about MINDSETExternal.

 Top of Page

##### University of Illinois (Chicago)

###### _PAUSE (Personalized Internet Assisted Underserved Self-management of
Epilepsy)_

In partnership with the Epilepsy Foundation, PAUSE will provide patients who
have refractory epilepsy with free access to a computer tablet and Internet
service. Patients will test epilepsy educational information based on
epilepsy.com content and real-time (web-based) video conferencing with a
health educator. Based on patient needs identified during a clinic visit, a
health care provider will assign personalized educational content for the
patient or a caregiver that can be reviewed at a customizable pace and with
guidance from a trained nurse or health educator via web conferencing.

Learn more about PAUSEExternal.

 Top of Page

##### Morehouse School of Medicine

###### _Adapting Evidence-Based Epilepsy Self-Management Programs for Blacks
in Georgia_

Using a Community Advisory Committee, focus groups, and interviews with
community stakeholders, this project proposes to replicate the use of UPLIFT
among African Americans to test its effectiveness and validate an epilepsy
self-management instrument with African-American adults with epilepsy. This
project seeks to promote the adoption and replication of self-management
programs in underserved communities, and to understand the features that
facilitate dissemination, replication, and adoption of these programs among
African-American adults with epilepsy and their providers.

Learn more about Project UPLIFTExternal.

 Top of Page

##### New York University

###### _Evaluation of Project UPLIFT for Hispanic adults with epilepsy_

To address the unmet mental health needs of medically underserved Spanish-
speaking adults with epilepsy, New York University will adapt UPLIFT for
Hispanic adults with epilepsy. Project activities will include conducting
focus groups with Spanish-speaking adults to understand how UPLIFT might be
modified to account for cultural differences and to meet the needs of this
group. UPLIFT content will be modified as necessary, content will be
translated, and the Spanish-version of UPLIFT will be tested to assess its
effectiveness in reducing depressive symptoms in Hispanic adults with
epilepsy.

Learn more about Project UPLIFTExternal.

 Top of Page

##### University of Minnesota

###### _Youth, Epilepsy, and Successful Self-Management_

The purpose of this study is to develop an online self-management program for
people aged 13 to 19 years with epilepsy that is grounded in behavioral
science and youth development theory. The project will include a systematic
review of the literature related to pediatric self-management; a series of
focus groups with young people with epilepsy, parents/guardians of young
people with epilepsy, and key informants; the creation of an advisory group
comprising young people with epilepsy to assist with program design and
content; and intervention evaluation.

Learn more about YESSExternal.

 Top of Page

##### University of Washington

###### _PACES in Epilepsy: Replication, Extension, and Dissemination_

Program for Active Consumer Engagement in Self-Management (PACES) was
developed to improve self-management and related health outcomes in adults
with epilepsy. The goals of this study are to adapt PACES for telephone
delivery; support both in-person and telephone group delivery of the program;
and evaluate the effectiveness of PACES in both rural and veteran
subpopulations in the Pacific Northwest. PACES will include Epilepsy
Foundation HOPE Mentors who will provide peer support to reinforce participant
goal achievement. If effective, the PACES team will collaborate with the
University of Washington Training Xchange staff to build a sustainable model
of training recruitment, training options, and national dissemination (in-
person and e-learning).

Learn more about PACESExternal.

 Top of Page

Related Publications

For publications resulting from MEW Network research, visit the MEW Network
WebsiteExternal.

Below are publications that provide an overview of the MEW Network:

Kobau R, Price P, Hawkins NA. News From the CDC: Translating Epilepsy Self-
management Research to Practice. _Translational Behavioral Medicine: Practice,
Policy and Research._ 2012;2(2):124-125.

Kobau R, Price P, Giles HW, Pennell P, Hargis E. Forward/Editorial: Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention Managing Epilepsy Well Network. _Epilepsy
Behav._ 2010;19(3):216-217.

DiIorio C, Bamps Y, Edwards AL, et al. The Prevention Research Centers'
Managing Epilepsy Well Network. _Epilepsy & Behav_. 2010;19(3):218-224.

Sajatovic M, Jobst BC, Shegog R, et al. The Managing Epilepsy Well Network:
Advancing epilepsy self-management. _Am J Prev Med_. 2017;52(3S3):S241-S245.

Page last reviewed: March 13, 2019

Content source: National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health
Promotion , Division of Population Health

home Epilepsy

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Epilepsyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Seizure First Aid
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fast Facts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Types of Seizures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SUDEPplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * SUDEP Information for Parents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Managing Epilepsyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Managing Epilepsy Well Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Find Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Parent Toolkitplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Parentâs Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Facilitatorâs Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Resource Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clinical Trials 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventing Epilepsy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research and Surveillanceplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MEW Network
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Epidemiologic Research Projects 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC Addresses Epilepsy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Scientific Articlesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Scientific Articles by Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Links to Other Websites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Info for Specific Groupsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Parents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Training for Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communications Centerplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Whatâs New
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Text Descriptions for Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Featuresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Spotlight on Seizures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sudden Unexpected Death in Epilepsy (SUDEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy Self-Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy in Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Get Seizure Smart!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy & Seizures in Older Adults
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Strokes May Lead to Epilepsy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy Can Follow Traumatic Brain Injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Get Email Updates

Social_govd govD Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about Epilepsy, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

