

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Epilepsy

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Epilepsy Self-Management

Minus

Related Pages

## The Importance of Epilepsy Self-Management

**Learn how self-management programs can help people with epilepsy feel better
and live fuller lives.**

![Man carrying son on shoulders with wife
smiling](/epilepsy/images/communications/features/Couple-Playing-with-Son.jpg)

Epilepsy is a broad term used for a brain disorder that causes seizures.
Epilepsy can get in the way of life, mostly when seizures keep happening.
Although there are many medicines to help prevent seizures, they don't always
work. In fact, more than half (56%) of adults with active epilepsy who take
antiseizure medicines are still having seizures.1

Uncontrolled seizures can increase the risk of injury, anxiety, depression,
brain damage, and in rare cases, death. They can also interfere with
activities such as working, going to school, and socializing with friends and
family. Side effects from medicine (such as feeling tired or having memory
problems) can add to the challenges of living with epilepsy.2

As with any chronic condition, people with epilepsy can benefit from learning
skills that help them better manage their disorder and its effects on daily
life.

Epilepsy self-management involves three areas:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. _Treatment management_ , such as taking medicines as prescribed, keeping medical appointments, and communicating effectively with health care providers.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2. _Seizure management_ , such as recognizing and avoiding seizure triggers and keeping track of when seizures happen.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3. _Lifestyle management_ , such as getting enough sleep and reducing stress.3

Physician support of self-management is important. Patients are much more
likely to participate in self-management programs if their health care
provider recommends it.3

![Doctor smiling, talking to
patient](/epilepsy/images/communications/features/Female-Doctor-Smiling-at-
Adult-Patient.jpg)

Patients are more likely to participate in self-management programs if
recommended by their physician.

### Programs and Tools You Can Use

To increase the availability of evidence-based self-management programs, CDC
created the Managing Epilepsy Well (MEW) Networkexternal icon in 2007. The MEW
Network has provided national leadership in developing, testing, and
distributing innovative epilepsy self-management programs, tools, and
trainings.2

MEW Network programs are tested and known to work. Many are fully or partially
delivered by phone, online, or on other electronic devices to eliminate
barriers such as lack of transportation and concerns about people's negative
reactions to epilepsy or witnessing a seizure.2 Several of the programs
include social support from peers, nurse educators, or other program staff.
This provides meaningful ways for participants to connect with others for
support and encouragement.

#### Programs include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * HOBSCOTCHexternal icon (Home Based Self-management and Cognitive Training Changes Lives), a program delivered in person and by phone. HOBSCOTCH teaches participants specific memory strategies and uses problem-solving therapy to improve memory and attention in people with epilepsy.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * PACESexternal icon (Program for Active Consumer Engagement in Epilepsy Self-Management), a program that is delivered in person in a community setting or over the phone. PACES improves self-management, confidence, depression, and quality of life in people with epilepsy.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Project UPLIFTexternal icon (Using Practice and Learning to Increase Favorable Thoughts), an 8-week program delivered by phone. UPLIFT uses cognitive behavioral and mindfulness therapies to reduce depressive symptoms and improve knowledge and skills for depression self-management. Free training is available for mental health professionals.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TIMEexternal icon (Targeted Self-Management for Epilepsy and Mental Illness) is a program for adults who have both epilepsy and a serious mental illness, such as severe depression, bipolar disorder, or schizophrenia. TIME consists of 12 weekly group sessions that include education, behavioral modeling, and group support. TIME has been shown to be effective in reducing depressive symptoms.2

In collaboration with local Epilepsy Foundation chapters and affiliates, MEW
programs are being delivered in many communities across the country. Starting
in Fall 2019, the following programs will be offered:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * HOBSCOTCH, through EF Connecticutexternal icon, EF Greater Chicagoexternal icon, EF Kentuckianaexternal icon (both in Kentucky and Indiana), EF Central & South Texasexternal icon, and EF Virginiaexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * PACES, through EF Alaskaexternal icon, EF Arizonaexternal icon, EF Michiganexternal icon, EF Oregonexternal icon, EF Eastern Pennsylvaniaexternal icon, EF Central & South Texasexternal icon, and EF Washingtonexternal icon.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Project UPLIFT, through EF Coloradoexternal icon, EF Connecticutexternal icon, EF Delawareexternal icon, EF Greater Chicagoexternal icon, EF Marylandexternal icon, EF Michiganexternal icon, EF New Englandexternal icon, EF Northeastern New Yorkexternal icon, EF Ohioexternal icon, EF Central & South Texasexternal icon, and EF Houston-Dallas-Ft. Worth-West Texasexternal icon.

The MEW Network continues to test new programs for adults and children with
epilepsy. To learn more about current activities, visit their websiteexternal
icon. MEW Network resources include a free epilepsy self-management
measurement tool pdf icon[37.8 KB]external icon that helps providers assess
their patients' self-management needs, and a free patient self-management
checklist pdf icon[79.2 KB]external icon. Providers can also refer patients to
learn more about self-management on the MEW Network page for patients and
familiesexternal icon.

### References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. Tian N, Boring M, Kobau R, Zack MM, Croft JB. Active Epilepsy and Seizure Control in Adults --United States, 2013 and 2015. MMWR. 2018;67:437-442\. DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.15585/mmwr.mm6715a1external icon.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The Managing Epilepsy Well Network and Selected Self-Management Programs: Putting Collective Wisdom to Work for People with Epilepsy. Atlanta, GA: US Dept of Health and Human Services; 2016.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Living Well with Epilepsy. Accessed August 12, 2019.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4. Sajatovic M, Jobst BC, Shegog R, et al. The Managing Epilepsy Well Network: advancing epilepsy self-management. Am J Prev Med. 2017;52(3S3):S241-S245.

Page last reviewed: October 15, 2019

Content source: National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health
Promotion , Division of Population Health

home Epilepsy

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Epilepsyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Seizure First Aid
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fast Facts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Types of Seizures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SUDEPplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * SUDEP Information for Parents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Managing Epilepsyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Managing Epilepsy Well Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Find Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Parent Toolkitplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Parentâs Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Facilitatorâs Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Resource Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clinical Trials 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventing Epilepsy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research and Surveillanceplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MEW Network
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Epidemiologic Research Projects 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC Addresses Epilepsy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Scientific Articlesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Scientific Articles by Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Links to Other Websites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Info for Specific Groupsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Parents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Training for Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communications Centerplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Whatâs New
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Text Descriptions for Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Featuresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Spotlight on Seizures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sudden Unexpected Death in Epilepsy (SUDEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy Self-Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy in Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Get Seizure Smart!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy & Seizures in Older Adults
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Strokes May Lead to Epilepsy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy Can Follow Traumatic Brain Injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Get Email Updates

Social_govd govD Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about Epilepsy, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

