

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Epilepsy

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Strokes May Lead to Epilepsy

Minus

Related Pages

##### Learn how preventing stroke can also prevent some kinds of epilepsy.

## What is a Stroke?

![Older woman looking out of a window with a somber
look.](/epilepsy/images/communications/features/Older-Woman-Looking-out-of-
Window-Looking-Distressed.jpg)

A stroke happens when a clot blocks the blood supply to the brain or when a
blood vessel in the brain bursts.1 About 795,000 people in the United States
have a stroke each year.1 It is a major cause of disability and the fifth
leading cause of death in the United States.1 Signs that someone is having a
stroke are:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sudden numbness or weakness in the face, arm, or leg, especially on one side of the body.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sudden confusion, trouble speaking, or problems understanding speech.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sudden trouble seeing in one or both eyes.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sudden trouble walking, dizziness, loss of balance, or lack of coordination.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sudden severe headache with no known cause.1

## Strokes Can Cause Seizures and Epilepsy2

Preventing Stroke

Lower your chance of having a stroke by:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Controlling high blood pressure, diabetes, and high cholesterol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Having a healthy weight
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Being physically active
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Eating a healthy diet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Limiting alcohol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Avoiding smoking4

Epilepsy is a broad term used for a brain disorder that causes repeated
seizures. There are many types of epilepsy, and there are also many different
kinds of seizures.

A single seizure may happen soon after a stroke.2 You do not necessarily have
epilepsy, or will develop epilepsy, if you have just one seizure. Certain
types of strokes, such as ones that cause bleeding, and more severe strokes
may be more likely to cause epilepsy.2

Physical Activity

![Older woman wearing exercise clothes, walking her dog.
](/epilepsy/images/communications/features/Older-Woman-Walking-Dog-in-Field-
small.jpg)

Physical activity is one way to lower the chance of having a stroke.

One study found that among those who had strokes, 5% had one seizure and 7%
developed epilepsy in the thirty months afterwards.2  
Epilepsy caused by strokes can usually be controlled with anti-seizure
medicines.2 It's important to take medicine as prescribed to keep seizures
under control.

## Older Adults Are More at Risk

Epilepsy is more likely to develop in older adults than younger adults.3
Stroke causes up to half of new epilepsy cases in older adults for which a
cause can be identified.3 This makes stroke one of the most common reasons
people develop epilepsy as they age.3

Seizures may be hard to recognize in older adults and may be overlooked. For
instance, trouble with memory, confusion, falls, dizziness, or numbness may be
viewed as "normal" aging problems. However, these can actually be symptoms of
seizures and are not normal.3 Older adults who have had a stroke, and their
caregivers, should watch for these symptoms.

To learn more about recognizing seizures in older adults, take the Epilepsy
Foundation's Seniors and Seizures trainingexternal icon.

Do you know what to do if someone has a seizure? Learn seizure first aid.

Prevent epilepsy by preventing stroke!



More Information

CDC Epilepsy Program

CDC Stroke Program

References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Stroke Fact Sheet. Accessed May 9, 2019.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2. Conrad J, Pawlowski M, Dogan M, et al. Seizures after cerebrovascular events: Risk factors and clinical features. Seizure. 2013;22(4):275-82. DOI:10.1016/j.seizure.2013.01.014. htmlexternal icon.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3. Brodie MJ, Elder AT, Kwan P. Epilepsy in later life. Lancet Neurol. 2009; 8(11):1019-30\. DOI: 10.1016/S1474-4422(09)70240-6. htmlexternal icon.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Preventing Stroke: What You Can Do. Accessed May 9, 2019.

Page last reviewed: July 9, 2019, 12:00 AM

Content source: National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health
Promotion , Division of Population Health

home Epilepsy

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Epilepsyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Seizure First Aid
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fast Facts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Types of Seizures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SUDEPplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * SUDEP Information for Parents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Managing Epilepsyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Managing Epilepsy Well Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Find Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Parent Toolkitplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Parentâs Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Facilitatorâs Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Resource Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clinical Trials 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventing Epilepsy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research and Surveillanceplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MEW Network
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Epidemiologic Research Projects 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC Addresses Epilepsy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Scientific Articlesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Scientific Articles by Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Links to Other Websites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Info for Specific Groupsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Parents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Training for Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communications Centerplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Whatâs New
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Text Descriptions for Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Featuresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Spotlight on Seizures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sudden Unexpected Death in Epilepsy (SUDEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy Self-Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy in Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Get Seizure Smart!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy & Seizures in Older Adults
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Strokes May Lead to Epilepsy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy Can Follow Traumatic Brain Injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Get Email Updates

Social_govd govD Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about Epilepsy, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

