

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Epilepsy

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Epilepsy Can Follow Traumatic Brain Injury

Minus

Related Pages

![A doctor looking at brain images from an MRI. Only his hand and torso are
shown.](/epilepsy/images/communications/features/Doctor-Looking-at-Brain-
Images_1.jpg)

##### Did you know that traumatic brain injury (TBI) can cause epilepsy? Learn
how to protect your brain.

A traumatic brain injury (TBI) can happen to anyone, especially young children
and older adults. TBIs can range from mild (such as concussions) to severe,
life-threatening injuries. They can cause changes in:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Thinking and memory;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sensations and balance;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Language, such as talking and understanding; and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Emotions, such as depression, anxiety, or aggression.1

## TBIs can also cause epilepsy

Epilepsy is a broad term used for a brain disorder that causes repeated
seizures. There are many types of epilepsy and there are also many different
kinds of seizures. TBIs can cause a seizure right after the injury happens or
even months or years later. Researchers agree that the more severe the TBI,
the greater the chance the person may develop epilepsy.2 Age and other medical
conditions are also factors in whether or not a person may develop epilepsy
after a TBI.

The terms post-traumatic epilepsy (PTE) and post-traumatic seizures (PTS) are
both used to describe seizures that happen because of a TBI.3 In 2014, there
were over 280,000 hospitalizations for TBI in the US.4 A CDC-funded study
found that among people aged 15 years and older hospitalized for TBI, about 1
out of 10 developed epilepsy in the following 3 years.2

### Everyone should:

![A young boy is smiling as his father is putting his helmet on
him.](/epilepsy/images/communications/features/Father-Putting-Helmet-on-Young-
Son.jpg)

Always wear a helmet when riding a bike to prevent head injuries!

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Learn the signs and symptoms of TBI and when to seek medical care.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Take the CDC's HEADS UP training to learn how to recognize, respond to, and minimize the risk of concussion or TBI if you're a parent, coach, child care provider, or school professional.

### If you or someone you care for has a head injury, here's what you need to
know:

![A nurse comforting an older patient in a wheelchair. Both are smiling and
looking at each other.](/epilepsy/images/communications/features/older-woman-
in-wheelchair-with-nurse.jpg)

If you or someone you care for has had a head injury, talk to a doctor about
the risk of seizures and epilepsy.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Seek medical attention and share information about TBI signs and symptoms.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Talk to the doctor about the risk for having seizures or developing epilepsy after a TBI.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Learn to recognize the signs of a seizure. Sometimes it can be hard to tell. Some seizures cause a person to fall, cry out, shake or jerk, and become unaware of what's going on around them. Other seizures can make a person appear confused, make it hard for them to answer questions, twitch, or cause the person to feel like they taste, see, or smell something unusual.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Learn first aid so you are prepared if someone has a seizure.

### To prevent TBIs that may cause epilepsy, protect your brain from injury.
For example:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Use seat belts and properly installed car safety seats every time you drive or ride in a motor vehicle.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Never drive while under the influence of alcohol or drugs.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Wear a helmet when playing certain sports and riding bikes, horses, motorcycles, or all-terrain vehicles.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevent falls, especially in older adults and young children.

More Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC Epilepsy Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC Traumatic Brain Injury & Concussion

References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Signs and Symptoms, Concussion and TBI website. Accessed May 14, 2019. html.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2. Ferguson PL, Smith GM, Wannamaker BB, Thurman DJ, Pickelsimer EE, and Selassie AW. A population-based study of risk of epilepsy after hospitalization for traumatic brain injury. Epilepsia. 2010;51:891-898\. DOI: 10.1111/j.1528-1167.2009.02384.x. htmlexternal icon.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3. Frey LC. Epidemiology of posttraumatic epilepsy: a critical review. Epilepsia. 2003;44:11-17\. DOI:10.1046/j.1528-1157.44.s10.4.x. htmlexternal icon.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Surveillance report of traumatic brain injury-related emergency department visits, hospitalizations, and deaths--United States, 2014. https://www.cdc.gov/traumaticbraininjury/pdf/TBI-Surveillance-Report-FINAL_508.pdfpdf icon. Published 2019. Accessed May 24, 2019.

Page last reviewed: July 10, 2019, 12:00 AM

Content source: National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health
Promotion , Division of Population Health

home Epilepsy

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Epilepsyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Seizure First Aid
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fast Facts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Types of Seizures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SUDEPplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * SUDEP Information for Parents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Managing Epilepsyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Managing Epilepsy Well Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Find Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Parent Toolkitplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Parentâs Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Facilitatorâs Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Resource Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clinical Trials 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventing Epilepsy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research and Surveillanceplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MEW Network
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Epidemiologic Research Projects 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC Addresses Epilepsy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Scientific Articlesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Scientific Articles by Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Links to Other Websites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Info for Specific Groupsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Parents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Training for Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communications Centerplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Whatâs New
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Text Descriptions for Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Featuresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Spotlight on Seizures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sudden Unexpected Death in Epilepsy (SUDEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy Self-Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy in Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Get Seizure Smart!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy & Seizures in Older Adults
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Strokes May Lead to Epilepsy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy Can Follow Traumatic Brain Injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Get Email Updates

Social_govd govD Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about Epilepsy, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

