

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Epilepsy

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Sudden Unexpected Death in Epilepsy (SUDEP)

Minus

Related Pages

### 5 Things You Should Know about SUDEP

![Unhappy girl sitting on a
bench](/epilepsy/images/communications/features/sad-woman-on-park-
bench_500px.jpg)

#### #1 SUDEP is not well understood.

SUDEP stands for Sudden Unexpected Death in Epilepsy. SUDEP refers to deaths
in people with epilepsy that are not from injury, drowning, or other known
causes.1 Most, but not all, cases of SUDEP happen during or right after a
seizure.1

Researchers do not understand the exact cause of SUDEP, but these are possible
reasons it happens:2-4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _**Breathing changes:**_ A seizure may cause a person to have pauses in breathing. If these pauses last too long, they can reduce the oxygen in the blood to a dangerous level. Also, if a person's airway gets blocked during a seizure, that can lead to suffocation.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _**Heart rhythm changes:**_ Rarely, a seizure may cause a dangerous heart rhythm or heart failure.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _**Other causes and mixed causes:**_ SUDEP may happen because of a combination of breathing trouble and abnormal heart rhythm.

The **major** risk factors that increase the chance of SUDEP are:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Uncontrolled or frequent seizures.1,3,4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Generalized convulsive (what used to be called tonic-clonic or grand mal) seizures.1,3,4

Other _possible_ risk factors are:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Seizures that start at a young age.3,4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Many years of living with epilepsy.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Missing doses of medicine.3,4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drinking alchohol.1

#### #2 SUDEP is rare, but traumatic for families.

![If you have epilepsy, it’s important to take your seizure medicine as
prescribed. The chance of SUDEP is higher in people who have frequent
seizures.<sup>1</sup>](/epilepsy/images/communications/features/older-man-
taking-pills-with-water_300px.jpg)

If you have epilepsy, it's important to take your seizure medicine as
prescribed. The chance of SUDEP is higher in people who have frequent
seizures.1

Researchers estimate that for every 1,000 people with epilepsy, at least one
person may die from SUDEP each year.5 This means that each year in the US,
there are about 3,000 deaths due to SUDEP. But, counting SUDEP cases is
difficult because SUDEP is not always included on death certificates.5

SUDEP occurs more often in people ages 21 to 40 compared to other age groups.5
Because SUDEP can happen unexpectedly to people who are so young, it can be
very shocking for families and loved ones.

#### #3 Managing seizures may help.

Research has shown that controlling seizures may lower the chance of SUDEP. If
you have epilepsy, the most important way to do this is to _take your seizure
medicine as prescribed_.1

Other steps that might help lower the chance of SUDEP1:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Consider a seizure alert monitorexternal icon if you often have seizures at night.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Avoid seizure triggers if you know what they are. Read more about triggersexternal icon from the Epilepsy Foundation.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Do not drink too much alcohol.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Learn how to better control seizures and other symptoms with self-management programs.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Get enough sleep.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Make sure your family and friends know seizure first aid.

If you are taking medicine and still having seizures, talk to your doctor
about changing your medicine or other things that might help. If seizures
continue, consider seeing an epilepsy specialist. Learn how to find specialty
careexternal icon from the Epilepsy Foundation.

#### #4 Support is available.

Losing a loved one to SUDEP can be especially difficult because it's so
unexpected. The Epilepsy Foundation's SUDEP Instituteexternal icon provides
information and support to bereaved families.

Parents of children with epilepsy can learn more about SUDEP in children,
including tips on how to talk to your child's doctor.

#### #5 Research continues.

CDC supports research to help us understand SUDEP better. Together with the
National Institutes of Health (NIH), CDC funds the Sudden Death in the Young
Case Registryexternal icon. The goals of this project are to count the number
of cases and to understand the causes of death in infants, children, and young
adults who die suddenly and unexpectedly - including from SUDEP. Researchers
will use this information to recommend how to prevent these types of death in
the future.

The Epilepsy Foundation and partners also support other SUDEP researchexternal
icon.

More Information

CDC Epilepsy Program

References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. Devinsky O. Sudden unexpected death in epilepsy. _New Engl J Med._ 2011;365:1801-11.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2. So EL. What is known about the mechanisms underlying SUDEP? _Epilepsia_. 2008;49(Suppl. 9):93-98.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3. Tomson T, Nashef L, Ryvlin P. Sudden unexpected death in epilepsy: current knowledge and future directions. _Lancet Neurol_. 2008;7(11):1021-31.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4. Nei M, Hays R. Sudden unexpected death in epilepsy. _Curr Neurol Neurosci Rep_. 2010;10(4):319-26.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5. Thurman DJ, Hesdorffer DC, French JA. Sudden unexpected death in epilepsy: Assessing the public health burden. _Epilepsia_. 2014;55(10):1479-85.

Page last reviewed: November 5, 2019, 12:00 AM

Content source: National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health
Promotion , Division of Population Health

home Epilepsy

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Epilepsyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Seizure First Aid
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fast Facts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Types of Seizures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SUDEPplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * SUDEP Information for Parents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Managing Epilepsyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Managing Epilepsy Well Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Find Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Parent Toolkitplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Parentâs Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Facilitatorâs Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Resource Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clinical Trials 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventing Epilepsy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research and Surveillanceplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MEW Network
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Epidemiologic Research Projects 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC Addresses Epilepsy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Scientific Articlesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Scientific Articles by Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Links to Other Websites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Info for Specific Groupsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Parents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Training for Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communications Centerplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Whatâs New
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Text Descriptions for Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Featuresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Spotlight on Seizures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sudden Unexpected Death in Epilepsy (SUDEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy Self-Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy in Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Get Seizure Smart!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy & Seizures in Older Adults
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Strokes May Lead to Epilepsy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy Can Follow Traumatic Brain Injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Get Email Updates

Social_govd govD Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about Epilepsy, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

