

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Epilepsy

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Epilepsy in Children

Minus

Related Pages

![Group of teenage
students](/epilepsy/images/communications/features/epilepsy-in-children-teens-
walking.jpg)

**Parents, use these tips to make sure your child with epilepsy is safe and
supported during the school day.**

Parents may feel a mix of excitement and worry as a new school year begins.
This is especially true for parents of children with epilepsy and seizures who
worry about safety during the school day. Here are some tips to keep students
with epilepsy safer as they head back to school.

### 1\. Make a Seizure Action Plan.

A Seizure Action Plan contains the essential information school staff may need
to know in order to help a student who has seizures. It includes first aid
steps, parent and health care provider contact information, and medicines that
may need to be taken during the school day. See an example of a Seizure Action
Planpdf iconexternal icon from the Epilepsy Foundation.

Read the Ideas for Parents pdf icon[PDF - 2.62MB] fact sheet for more tips on
what to include in an action plan and how to talk to your child's school.

### 2\. Help school staff get trained.

CDC partners with the Epilepsy Foundation to deliver free training programs to
school staff. Talk to your child's school to see if school personnel could
participate in these programs.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Managing Students with Seizures for School Nursesexternal icon teaches school nurses how to care for students with seizures and train other school staff. It is available online or in person.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Seizure Training for School Personnelexternal icon teaches school staff (teachers, office staff, bus drivers, and others) to recognize seizures, provide first aid, and understand how epilepsy may affect a student. It is available online or in person.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Seizure Training for Childcare Personnelexternal icon teaches childcare providers how to recognize seizures and provide seizure first aid for young children. It is available in person through your local Epilepsy Foundation office.

### 3\. Help other students understand epilepsy.

![Girl in classroom](/epilepsy/images/communications/features/epilepsy-in-
children-female-student-in-purple.jpg)

Use these tips to make sure your child with epilepsy has the support she needs
to stay safe at school.

CDC also supports the Epilepsy Foundation to deliver education
programsexternal icon that teach K-12 students about epilepsy and seizure
first aid. Talk to your child's school to see if they would be willing to
share these programs, which can be delivered by your local Epilepsy Foundation
office:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Take Charge of the Storm Jr. for elementary school students.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Seizures and You: Take Charge of the Storm for middle school-aged students.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Seizures and You: Take Charge of the Facts for high school-aged students.

CDC's Body and Mind (BAM) website provides teachers and students information
about epilepsy. The topics covered include what a seizure looks like, facts
about epilepsy, stigma and bullying, and how to provide seizure first aid.

### 4\. Find Support

If you have questions about epilepsy, want to find others to talk to online or
in a local support group, or want to find community events, visit CDC's Find
Support page.

Parents of teens may have specific concerns about how to manage epilepsy as
their children become more independent. CDC's You Are Not Alone Parent Toolkit
can help! Learn from other families' examples as they talk about driving,
dating, medicine, stress, school problems, and other important issues. Parents
can use the toolkit on their own or lead a support group.

Page last reviewed: August 6, 2019

Content source: National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health
Promotion , Division of Population Health

home Epilepsy

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Epilepsyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Seizure First Aid
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fast Facts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Types of Seizures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SUDEPplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * SUDEP Information for Parents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Managing Epilepsyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Managing Epilepsy Well Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Find Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Parent Toolkitplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Parentâs Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Facilitatorâs Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Resource Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clinical Trials 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventing Epilepsy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research and Surveillanceplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MEW Network
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Epidemiologic Research Projects 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC Addresses Epilepsy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Scientific Articlesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Scientific Articles by Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Links to Other Websites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Info for Specific Groupsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Parents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Training for Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communications Centerplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Whatâs New
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Text Descriptions for Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Featuresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Spotlight on Seizures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sudden Unexpected Death in Epilepsy (SUDEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy Self-Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy in Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Get Seizure Smart!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy & Seizures in Older Adults
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Strokes May Lead to Epilepsy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy Can Follow Traumatic Brain Injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Get Email Updates

Social_govd govD Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about Epilepsy, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

