

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Epilepsy

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Building Inclusive Communities

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Assess and Promote Community Health Inclusion
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Address Epilepsy in Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Create Supportive Work Environments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Train Professionals and Community Members
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Find Resources via CORIDOR

Communities can promote the health, well-being, and social participation of
people with epilepsy. Supportive communities (which may be towns, cities,
counties, tribal areas, or similar) have many components, such as schools and
day care facilities, housing units, health care facilities, business and
industry settings; and community-based programs, coalitions, and
organizations. Community leaders can strive to develop and promote lasting
strategies that support people with epilepsy where they live, learn, work,
play, worship, and age.

Learn how communities can assess how well their programs include people with
chronic disease or disabilities, and how they can promote healthy living in
places like schools and employment settings.



### Assess and Promote Community Health Inclusion

Some people with epilepsy identify themselves as having a disability. To be
healthy, all individuals, including those with disabilities, must have
opportunities to take part in meaningful daily activities. These opportunities
may be determined by how inclusive a community is in helping people with
epilepsy. For people with disabilities (PWD), this can include having access
to affordable housing, transportation, employment opportunities, and social
support.

![Multiracial friends with hands in stack](/epilepsy/images/Epilepsy-
Communities-300px.jpg)

The Community Health Inclusion Index (CHII) is an evaluation tool that can
help community decision makers, public health professionals, and disability
organizations to

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Better understand the challenges PWD face to participate in physical activities and buy healthy foods.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Learn how current programs that promote healthy living affect the health of PWD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Add to other tools that measure physical activity and healthy eating at the community level to assess gaps and needs.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Develop and apply strategies to improve access to physical activity and nutritional programs, which may in turn bring about healthier lifestyles for adults and children with disabilities.

Learn more about the Community Health Inclusion IndexExternal.

 Top of Page

### Address Epilepsy in Schools

For many children, epilepsy is easily controlled with medication. These
children can do what other kids can do, and perform as well in school. For
others, it can be more challenging. Schools and school groups (such as parent
teacher organizations or school wellness committees) can support students with
chronic conditions to be healthy and ready to learn. Learn more about Epilepsy
in Schools.

 Top of Page

### Create Supportive Work Environments

Sometimes people with epilepsy need accommodation in the workplace. For
example, flickering lights can be a seizure trigger. In this case, employers
could provide natural light or a glare guard for computer screens.

Employers can use these resources to learn how to provide a supportive work
environment for employees with epilepsy.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Job Accommodation Network (JAN)External provides information on writing a seizure action plan and examples of accommodations that address stress, memory problems, and other concerns.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The American Epilepsy Society's Workplace AccommodationExternal  page explains accommodations in depth.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The US Equal Employment Opportunity Commission's Questions & Answers about Epilepsy in the Workplace and the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)External page provides information on relevant laws for job applicants, employees, and employers.



 Top of Page

### Train Professionals and Community Members

##### Training for Professionals

An important way to improve safety and quality of life for people with
epilepsy is to make sure that professionals such as school nurses and other
school staff, law enforcement, first responders, and childcare workers
understand epilepsy and how to offer first aid. Learn more about Training for
Professionals.

##### Mental Health Care Training for Community Members

Many people with epilepsy also have depression or anxiety disorders. Community
members who support people with epilepsy and their families can benefit from
Mental Health First Aid Training. This evidence-based program can help people
recognize mental health crises and learn how to connect a person to mental
health care. Search for a Mental Health First Aid TrainingExternal near you.

 Top of Page

### Find Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion Resources via CORIDOR

CORIDOR (Collection of Online Resources & Inventory Database: Organized and
Readily accessible) is a searchable database of resources such as webinars,
model policies, toolkits, fact sheets, and other materials public health
practitioners can use in chronic disease prevention and health promotion
activities. The resources included are primarily practice-based and represent
science and practice promoted by CDC and CDC-funded partners to address
chronic disease conditions and risk factors, including epilepsy.

 Top of Page

Page last reviewed: September 19, 2018

Content source: National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health
Promotion , Division of Population Health

home Epilepsy

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Epilepsyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Seizure First Aid
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fast Facts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Types of Seizures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SUDEPplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * SUDEP Information for Parents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Managing Epilepsyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Managing Epilepsy Well Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Find Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Parent Toolkitplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Parentâs Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Facilitatorâs Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Resource Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clinical Trials 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventing Epilepsy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research and Surveillanceplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MEW Network
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Epidemiologic Research Projects 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC Addresses Epilepsy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Scientific Articlesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Scientific Articles by Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Links to Other Websites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Info for Specific Groupsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Parents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Training for Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communications Centerplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Whatâs New
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Text Descriptions for Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Featuresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Spotlight on Seizures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sudden Unexpected Death in Epilepsy (SUDEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy Self-Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy in Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Get Seizure Smart!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy & Seizures in Older Adults
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Strokes May Lead to Epilepsy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epilepsy Can Follow Traumatic Brain Injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Get Email Updates

Social_govd govD Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about Epilepsy, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

