

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Sickle Cell Disease (SCD)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

![Sickle Cell has many faces](/ncbddd/sicklecell/images/sickle-cell-many-
faces-1400px.jpg)

Sickle cell disease impacts people from around the world. Learn more.

COVID-19 Resources

![Coronavirus alert](/ncbddd/images/coronavirus-alert-small.jpg)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * SCDAA Health Alert for Patients and Caregivers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * SCDAA Provider Advisory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * New COVID-19 and Sickle Cell Disease Reporting Registry

# Learn More About Sickle Cell Disease

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a group of inherited red blood cell disorders. In
SCD, the red blood cells become hard and sticky and look like a C-shaped farm
tool called a "sickle." People with SCD can live full lives and enjoy most of
the activities that other people do. If you have SCD, it's important to learn
how to stay as healthy as possible.

New Notice of Funding Opportunity

CDC-RFA-DD20-2003: Sickle Cell Data Collectionexternal icon

An informational call for potential applicants will be held on April 2, 3-4pm
(ET). Please contact Mary Hulihan, ibx5@cdc.gov, for more information.

What is Sickle Cell Disease?

What is Sickle Cell Trait?

Complications & Treatment

Healthy Living

Materials & Multimedia

Data & Statistics

Research

Articles

About Us

View events in NCBDDD's history »

![NCBDDD Celebrating 20 Years](/ncbddd/images/20-years-banner-email.jpg)

What's New in Sickle Cell Disease

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Too Many Children Live Too Far From Sickle Cell Treatment They Needexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sickle Cell Disease Monitoring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Taking Charge of Your Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 5 Facts You Should Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Emergency Department Tips pdf icon[PDF - 261 KB]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Key Findings: Emergency Department Visits

New Podcast

![African American man listening to podcast on laptop in
office](/ncbddd/images/listening-to-podcast.jpg)

##### Sickle Cell Disease: Give Blood, Save a Life

This podcast highlights the importance of blood donations from African
Americans to help people with sickle cell disease who might need one or more
blood transfusions.

Listen now

VIDEO

![Screeshot of Sickle Cell Disease: When to Transfuse
video](/ncbddd/sicklecell/images/when-to-transfuse-343px.jpg)

**Sickle Cell Disease: When to Transfuse**  
Learn about indications for blood transfusion in patients with sickle cell
disease, the complications associated with these transfusions, and how you can
help reduce the risk for these complications in your patients.

More

WEBINAR SERIES

![Hand writing webinar on a screen](/ncbddd/dvt/images/pb-webinar.jpg)

**Bleeding and Clotting Disorders**  
The purpose of this series is to provide evidence-based information on new
research, interventions, emerging issues of interest in blood disorders, as
well as innovative approaches in collaborations and partnerships. We invite
you to join us in this series.

More

SICKLE CELL TRAIT TOOLKIT

![Baby under a blanket](/ncbddd/sicklecell/images/baby-under-
blanket-343px.jpg)

CDC, together with the American Society of Hematology (ASH)external icon and
the Sickle Cell Disease Association of America (SCDAA)external icon, created
the Sickle Cell Trait Toolkit.

More

Page last reviewed: March 24, 2020

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Sickle Cell Disease Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What is Sickle Cell Disease?plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Complications & Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What is Sickle Cell Trait?plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sickle Cell Trait Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Healthy Livingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Living Well
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Preventing Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emergency Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sickle Cell Disease Monitoring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Taking Charge of Your Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Caregivers and Sickle Cell Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Materials & Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 5 Facts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Get Screened
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos & Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Buttons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Quiz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Real Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Information for Specific Groupsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Families
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthcare Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Clinical Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Nursing Implications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Links to Other Websites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Us

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

