

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Parasites - Soil-transmitted helminths

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Parasites - Soil-transmitted Helminths (STHs)

Minus

Related Pages

Soil-transmitted helminths refer to the intestinal worms infecting humans that
are transmitted through contaminated soil ("helminth" means parasitic worm):
_Ascaris lumbricoides_ (sometimes called just " _Ascaris_ "), whipworm (
_Trichuris trichiura_ ), and hookworm ( _Anclostoma duodenale_ and _Necator
americanus_ ). A large part of the world's population is infected with one or
more of these soil-transmitted helminths:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * approximately 807-1,121 million with _Ascaris_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * approximately 604-795 million with whipworm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * approximately 576-740 million with hookworm

Soil-transmitted helminth infection is found mainly in areas with warm and
moist climates where sanitation and hygiene are poor, including in temperate
zones during warmer months. These STHs are considered Neglected Tropical
Diseases (NTDs) because they inflict tremendous disability and suffering yet
can be controlled or eliminated.

Soil-transmitted helminths live in the intestine and their eggs are passed in
the feces of infected persons. If an infected person defecates outside (near
bushes, in a garden, or field) or if the feces of an infected person are used
as fertilizer, eggs are deposited on soil. _Ascaris_ and hookworm eggs become
infective as they mature in soil. People are infected with _Ascaris_ and
whipworm when eggs are ingested. This can happen when hands or fingers that
have contaminated dirt on them are put in the mouth or by consuming vegetables
and fruits that have not been carefully cooked, washed or peeled. Hookworm
eggs are not infective. They hatch in soil, releasing larvae (immature worms)
that mature into a form that can penetrate the skin of humans. Hookworm
infection is transmitted primarily by walking barefoot on contaminated soil.
One kind of hookworm ( _Anclostoma duodenale_ ) can also be transmitted
through the ingestion of larvae.

People with light soil-transmitted helminth infections usually have no
symptoms. Heavy infections can cause a range of health problems, including
abdominal pain, diarrhea, blood and protein loss, rectal prolapse, and
physical and cognitive growth retardation. Soil-transmitted helminth
infections are treatable with medication prescribed by your health care
provider.

### Hookworm

![](/parasites/images/sth/hookworm_home.gif)

An estimated 576-740 million people in the world are infected with hookworm.
Hookworm was widespread in the southeastern United States until the early 20th
century but is now nearly eliminated. Hookworm, _Ascaris_ , and whipworm are
known as soil-transmitted helminths (parasitic worms). Together, they account
for a major burden of disease worldwide.

More

### _Ascaris_

![](/parasites/images/sth/ascariasis_home.gif)

An estimated 807-1,221 million people in the world are infected with _Ascaris
lumbricoides_ (sometimes called just "Ascaris"). _Ascaris_ , hookworm, and
whipworm are known as soil-transmitted helminths (parasitic worms). Together,
they account for a major burden of disease worldwide. Ascariasis is now
uncommon in the United States.

More

### Whipworm

![](/parasites/images/sth/whipworm_home.gif)

An estimated 604-795 million people in the world are infected with whipworm.
Whipworm, hookworm, and _Ascaris_ are known as soil-transmitted helminths
(parasitic worms). Together, they account for a major burden of disease
worldwide.

More

Page last reviewed: January 10, 2013

Content source: Global Health, Division of Parasitic Diseases

home Soil-transmitted Helminths

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ascariasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hookworm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Whipworm

Social_govd govD  Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Parasites A-Z Index
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Parasites Glossary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Neglected Tropical Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory Diagnostic Assistance [DPDx]

Contact Us

For Health Care Providers, Emergency Consultations, and General Public.

**Contact Us**

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

