

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Stroke

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Stroke

Minus

Related Pages

Stroke is the fifth leading cause of death in the United States and is a major
cause of serious disability for adults.1,2 About  **795,000**  people in the
United States have a stroke each year.2 Get more quick facts about stroke.

**Stroke is preventable.** You may be able to prevent stroke or lower your
chances of having a stroke.

**Stroke is treatable.** Learn the signs of stroke, and call 9-1-1 right away
if you think someone might be having a stroke. Getting fast treatment is
important to preventing death and disability from stroke.

Learn About Stroke

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Stroke
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Types of Stroke
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Risk Factors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Stroke Facts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Stroke Resources

Grantee Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Paul Coverdell National Acute Stroke Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State, Local, and Tribal Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * WISEWOMAN Program

Stroke Survivor Stories

![Face. Arms. Speech. Time to call 9-1-1.](/stroke/images/stroke-hp-FAST-
image.jpg)

Every 40 seconds, someone in the U.S. has a stroke. Read these survivor
stories to learn more about stroke, including how you may be at risk, how to
recognize stroke, and what to do if stroke happens.

Spotlight on Stroke

![Supporting stroke systems of care.](/stroke/images/Coverdell-
Infocard2-medium.jpg)

Join us in celebrating 15 years of stroke care through the Coverdell Program!

Learn more about the program's history, currently funded states, and
partnership opportunities.

Featured Items

![2020 Hypertension Control Challenge](/bloodpressure/images/2020-HTN-
Challenge-thumb.jpg)

**CDC Announces 2020 Million Hearts ® Hypertension Control Challenge**external
icon  
The 2020 Million Hearts® Hypertension Control Challenge is now open to health
professionals, practices, and health systems that show excellence in achieving
hypertension control rates of at least 80% over a 12-month period. Share your
story and enter the Hypertension Control Challenge by April 6, 2020.

![Two EMTs loading a patient into an
ambulance.](/stroke/images/communications-kit-icon.jpg)

**Stroke Communications Kit**  
Health professionals can share these social media messages, graphics, and
resources to educate their audiences about the importance of stroke
prevention.

![Two EMTs loading a patient into an
ambulance.](/heartdisease/images/VS18-featured-item.jpg)

**_Vital Signs:_ Preventing 1 Million Heart Attacks and Strokes**  
Heart disease and stroke are preventable, yet they remain leading causes of
death, disability, and health care spending in the United States. Alarmingly,
in 2016, more than 800,000 of these life-changing cardiovascular events
happened to adults ages 35-64\. The new CDC Vital Signs highlights how Million
Hearts® is focusing national efforts on preventing 1 million heart attacks and
strokes by 2022. Learn how health systems and communities can keep people
healthy, optimize care, and improve outcomes for priority populations.

![Stroke Survivors Stories](/stroke/images/stroke-survivors-icon.jpg)

**DHDSP Recognizes Stroke Survivors**  
In observance of National Stroke Awareness Month this May, the Division for
Heart Disease and Stroke Prevention (DHDSP) is spotlighting stroke survivors
and the importance of stroke awareness. Visit our new Survivor Stories webpage
to learn more about stroke and how it can happen to anyone, even fitness
enthusiasts and new moms.

![New Report on Prevention of Stroke](/stroke/images/nature-stroke-icon.jpg)

**New Stroke Guidelines**  
The 2018 Guidelines for the Early Management of Patients With Acute Ischemic
Strokeexternal icon was released by the American Heart Association/American
Stroke Association in February 2018. The Guidelines serve as a comprehensive
resource for the management of patients with acute ischemic stroke, the most
common type of stroke.

References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. Kochanek KD, Xu JQ, Murphy SL, Arias E. Mortality in the United States, 2013. NCHS Data Brief, No. 178. Hyattsville, MD: National Center for Health Statistics, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Department of Health and Human Services; 2014.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2. Mozzafarian D, Benjamin EJ, Go AS, Arnett DK, Blaha MJ, Cushman M, et al., on behalf of the American Heart Association Statistics Committee and Stroke Statistics Subcommittee. Heart disease and stroke statistics--2016 update: a report from the American Heart Association. _Circulation_ 2016;133(4):e38-360.

Page last reviewed: February 19, 2020

Content source: National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health
Promotion , Division for Heart Disease and Stroke Prevention

home Stroke Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Stroke expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Types of Stroke
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Signs and Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stroke Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Recovery
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Men and Stroke
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Women and Stroke
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Stroke Risk expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Behavior
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Family History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevention expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthy Living
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Survivor Stories expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adrianâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Alysonâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Blancheâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Brookeâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Charlesâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clarkâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Johnâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Lilianâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Princeâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Wandaâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Statistics & Maps expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stroke Facts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Maps and Data Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Statistical Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MMWRs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Stroke Resources for Health Professionals expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stroke Patient Education Handouts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stroke Educational Materials for Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stroke Communications Kit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC Addresses Stroke

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Related CDC Web Sites

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ![DHDSP logo](/stroke/images/new_DHDSP_logo_small.gif)  
Division for Heart Disease and Stroke Prevention

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Heart Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * High Blood Pressure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Salt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cholesterol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Million Hearts®External file_external 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * WISEWOMAN Program

Other Chronic Disease Topics

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nutrition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Physical Activity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Heart Disease

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

