Link: https://medlineplus.gov/about/developers/webservices/    
                                Description: Find information about the search-based Web service that provides access to MedlinePlus health topic data in XML format and learn how to use this service.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

You Are Here:

Home ->

About MedlinePlus ->

Information about MedlinePlus for Developers ->

MedlinePlus Web Service

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/about/developers/webservices/

# MedlinePlus Web Service

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

MedlinePlus offers a search-based Web service that provides access to
MedlinePlus health topic data in XML format. Using the Web service, software
developers can build applications that utilize MedlinePlus health topic
information. The service accepts keyword searches as requests and returns
relevant health topics in ranked order. Keyword searches may be limited to
specific fields. The service also returns health topic summaries, search
result snippets, external links, and other associated data.

To ensure that the latest information is readily available, the data in the
Web service is updated daily, Tuesday-Saturday. The Web service is available
for English and Spanish health topics. The Web service is free of charge and
does not require registration or licensing. If you use data from the Web
service or build an interface using the Web service, please indicate that the
information is from MedlinePlus.gov but do not use the MedlinePlus logo or
otherwise imply that MedlinePlus endorses your particular product. Please see
NLMâs API page for further guidance. If you have questions about the
MedlinePlus Web service, or if you would like to share an application that you
have built using the service, please contact us.

To receive notification when MedlinePlus releases enhancements to the service
or updates the documentation, sign up for our Web service email updates:

Sign up for MedlinePlus email updates

GO

  

Please note that the Web service only returns the subset of MedlinePlus health
topic records that are relevant to the query in the request. If you need the
full set of MedlinePlus health topics in XML format, see our XML files page.
If you want to link patients or healthcare providers from electronic health
record (EHR) systems to relevant MedlinePlus information, use MedlinePlus
Connect.

## Description

Returns MedlinePlus health topic search results in English or Spanish for an
input query string.

## Acceptable Use Policy

In order to avoid overloading the MedlinePlus servers, NLM requires that users
of the MedlinePlus Web service send no more than 85 requests per minute per IP
address. Requests that exceed this limit will not be serviced, and service
will not be restored until the request rate falls beneath the limit. The
MedlinePlus Web service is updated once per day, Tuesday-Saturday. To limit
the number of requests that you send to the Web service, NLM recommends
caching results for a 12-24 hour period.

This policy is in place to ensure that the service remains available and
accessible to all users. NLM encourages all users of the MedlinePlus Web
service to use the _email_ and _tool_ parameters (as described below). NLM may
use this information to contact you if there are problems with your requests.

If you have a specific use case that requires you to send a large number of
requests to the Web service, and thus exceed the request rate limit outlined
in this policy, please contact us. NLM staff will evaluate your request and
determine if an exception may be granted. Please also review the MedlinePlus
XML files documentation. These XML files contain complete health topic records
and can serve as an alternate method of accessing MedlinePlus data.

## Base URL

 **https** ://wsearch.nlm.nih.gov/ws/query

Please use **https** instead of **http**. If you are already using the
MedlinePlus web service with http, please update your code to https.

## Parameters

### Required Parameters for Initial Search Request

Required Parameters for Initial Search RequestParameter Name| Description  
---|---  
 _db_|  Database to search. Value must be a valid MedlinePlus Web service
database name. Possible values are:  
 **healthTopics** \- English health topics. Submit English-language queries
when using this parameter.  
 **healthTopicsSpanish** \- Spanish health topics. Submit Spanish-language
queries when using this parameter.  
 _term_|  Text query submitted to the Web service. All special characters must
be URL encoded. Spaces may be replaced by '+' signs, which represent the AND
operator. Represent the OR operator as +OR+. To send a query as a phrase,
enclose the phrase in quotes using %22 to represent quotation marks.  
  
  

 **Examples:**  
https://wsearch.nlm.nih.gov/ws/query?db=healthTopics&term=asthma  
https://wsearch.nlm.nih.gov/ws/query?db=healthTopics&term=%22diabetes+medicines%22+OR+%22diabetes+drugs%22  
https://wsearch.nlm.nih.gov/ws/query?db=healthTopicsSpanish&term=asma

### Field Searching

The text for term can include limiters to restrict the search to a specific
health topic field. The syntax is <fieldName>:<fieldValue>. Fields that can be
searched in this way are:

title  
alt-title  
mesh (only available for English-language searches)  
full-summary  
group

See the Output Format section below for a description of each of these fields.
Use field searching carefully, as it can have a significant impact on the
order in which results are returned. Please note that when _group_ field
searching is used by itself and with no other parameters, all documents will
be returned with the same relevancy ranking (rank="0").

 **Example:  
** https://wsearch.nlm.nih.gov/ws/query?db=healthTopics&term=title:asthma

### Required Parameters for Subsequent Requests

Required Parameters for Subsequent RequestsParameter Name| Description  
---|---  
 _file_|  Name of the file containing the document references for the current
search. This parameter is required when _retstart_ is being used. The value is
obtained from the XML returned from the initial search. The file will expire
after a certain period of inactivity, after which a new request must be
initiated. If the file is expired, the XML output will contain an error
message.  
 _server_|  Name of the server with the file referenced by the _file_
parameter. This is required when the _file_ parameter is being used.  
 _retstart_|  Sequential index of the first document in the retrieved set to
be shown in the XML output (default=0, corresponding to the first record of
the entire set). This parameter can be used in conjunction with _retmax_ to
download an arbitrary subset of documents retrieved from a search.  
  
  

 **Example:**  
https://wsearch.nlm.nih.gov/ws/query?file=viv_0Uu9LP&server=qvlbsrch04&retstart=20

### Optional Parameters

Optional ParametersParameter Name| Description  
---|---  
 _retmax_|  Total number of documents from the retrieved set to be shown in
the XML output (default=10). By default, the web service only includes the
first 10 documents retrieved in the XML output. Increasing _retmax_ allows
more of the retrieved documents to be included in the XML output.  
 _rettype_|  Retrieval type. This parameter specifies the format of the
results. By default, results will be returned in _brief_ format if no
_rettype_ is specified in the request. To specify a retrieval type, use one of
the following possible values:  
 **brief** \- Returns the health topics as search results with abbreviated
health topic records, keyword-in-context highlighting, and snippets (default).  
 **topic** \- Returns the health topics as full XML records with all
associated vocabulary and links.  
 **all** \- Returns health topics in both _brief_ and _topic_ format.  
 _tool_|  A string with no internal spaces that identifies the resource which
is using the Web service (e.g., tool=myservicename). This argument is used to
help NLM provide better service to third parties using the Web service from
programs. As with any query system, it is sometimes possible to ask the same
question different ways, with different effects on performance. NLM requests
that developers sending a large volume of requests include a constant 'tool'
argument for all requests using the Web service.  
 _email_|  Email address. If you choose to provide an email address, NLM may
use it to contact you if there are problems with your queries. In addition to
using the email address parameter, we encourage all Web service users to sign
up for the email list referenced at the top of this page to receive general
announcements and notifications of changes to the service.  
  
  

 **ExamplesÂ** ( _retmax_ ) **:**  
https://wsearch.nlm.nih.gov/ws/query?db=healthTopics&term=diabetes&retmax=50  
https://wsearch.nlm.nih.gov/ws/query?file=viv_0Uu9LP&server=qvlbsrch04&retstart=30&retmax=20

 **Examples** ( _rettype_ ):  
https://wsearch.nlm.nih.gov/ws/query?db=healthTopics&term=asthma&rettype=brief  
https://wsearch.nlm.nih.gov/ws/query?db=healthTopics&term=asthma&rettype=topic  
https://wsearch.nlm.nih.gov/ws/query?db=healthTopics&term=asthma&rettype=all

## Output

### Output Type

XML

### XML Response Format

The following is the basic structure of the XML returned:

  

<nlmSearchResult>

  
    </term>
  
    </file>
  
    </server>
  
    </count>
  
    </retstart>
  
    </retmax>
  
    </spellingCorrection>
  
    

<list>

  
    

<document>

  
    <content />
  
</document>

  
    </list>
  
</nlmSearchResult>

  

The _rettype_ parameter in the URL request determines the format and type of
information contained within the <content> element. See below for more
information on the content element.

  

### Descriptions of Elements

Descriptions of ElementsElement Name| Description  
---|---  
 _nlmSearchResult_|  Basic XML node that contains the response (has no
attributes)  
 _term_|  Text query submitted to the Web service  
 _file_|  Name of the file containing the document references for the current
search  
 _server_|  Name of the server with the file referenced by the file parameter  
 _retstart_|  Sequential index of the first document in the retrieved set
shown in the XML output  
 _retmax_|  Total number of documents from the retrieved set shown in the XML
output  
 _count_|  The number of documents in the current result set (non-negative
integer)  
 _spellingCorrection_|  Suggested alternative search with a different spelling
of the word(s) in the query term(s). This element is not always present.  
 _list_|  The containing element for all of the retrieved documents  
 _document_|  An individual document (MedlinePlus health topic record)  
  
  

### Document Element Description

Document Element DescriptionAttribute| Type| Description  
---|---|---  
 _url_|  Text| MedlinePlus health topic page URL  
 _rank_|  Non-negative integer| Rank of the document in the results. The rank
is based on the relevance score as determined by the search engine. Generally,
the first document in the first results set will have a rank of zero, and the
next document will have a rank of 1, 2, 3, etc. However, if the query string
matches a health topic's title or altTitle, that topic will be boosted to the
top, regardless of the rank. In these cases, the first document in the first
results set may have a rank greater than zero.  
 _content_|  Text| Â Specifies some text associated with its parent document,
the MedlinePlus health topic record. The content nodes will vary depending on
the value of the rettype URL parameter.  
  
  

### Content Element Description for _brief_ Retrieval Type

For rettype=brief, the value of content nodes will contain query term
identification in the form of tags. The query term will be identified in the
tag as qt0, qt1, qt2, etc.

Â Content Element Description for _brief_ Retrieval TypeÂ Attribute| Type|
Description  
---|---|---  
 _name_|  Text| The name of the content node. Allowed values are: title,
organizationName, altTitle, fullSummary, mesh, groupName, snippet. (See below
for a description of content node values.)  
  
  

The content nodes are as follows:

Content Name Attribute Value descriptionContent Name Attribute Value|
Description  
---|---  
 _title_|  Name of the MedlinePlus health topic page  
 _organizationName_|  Organization that produced the MedlinePlus topic page.
Value will always be "National Library of Medicine" for English and
"Biblioteca Nacional de Medicina" for Spanish.  
 _altTitle_|  See reference(s) and synonym(s) for the topic. See references
and synonyms are undifferentiated in the XML.  
 _FullSummary_|  Text summary of the topic. HTML formatting will be present.  
 _mesh_|  Medical Subject Heading(s) assigned to the topic.  
 _groupName_|  Group(s) to which the topic belongs. A complete list of groups
can be found on the MedlinePlus health topics landing page in English and
Spanish.  
 _snippet_|  Brief result summary generated by the search engine that provides
a preview of the relevant content on the topic page.  
  
  

 **Example:**

â <document rank="0"Â url="https://medlineplus.gov/diabetesmedicines.html">

Â <content name="title"><span class="qt0">Diabetes</span> <span
class="qt1">Medicines</span></content>

Â <content name="organizationName">National Library of Medicine</content>

Â <content name="altTitle">Insulin</content>

Â <content name="altTitle">Hypoglycemic <span
class="qt1">Medicines</span></content>

Â <content name="FullSummary"><p><span class="qt0">Diabetes</span> means your
blood glucose, or blood sugar, is too high. If you can't control your <span
class="qt0">diabetes</span> with wise food choices and physical activity, you
may need <span class="qt0">diabetes</span> <span class="qt1">medicines. The
kind of medicine</span> you take depends on your type of <span
class="qt0">diabetes</span>, your schedule, and your other health conditions.
</p><p>With Type 1 <span class="qt0">diabetes</span>, your pancreas does not
make insulin. Insulin is a hormone that helps glucose get into your cells to
give them energy. Without insulin, too much glucose stays in your blood. If
you have type 1 <span class="qt0">diabetes</span>, you will need to take
insulin. </p><p>Type 2 <span class="qt0">diabetes</span>, the most common
type, can start when the body doesn't use insulin as it should. If your body
can't keep up with the need for insulin, you may need to take pills. Some
people need both insulin and pills. Along with meal planning and physical
activity, <span class="qt0">diabetes</span> pills help people with type 2
<span class="qt0">diabetes</span> or gestational <span
class="qt0">diabetes</span> keep their blood glucose levels on target. Several
kinds of pills are available. Each works in a different way. Many people take
two or three kinds of pills. Some people take combination pills. Combination
pills contain two kinds of <span class="qt0">diabetes</span> <span
class="qt1">medicine</span> in one tablet. Some people take pills and
insulin.</p><p>NIH: National Institute of <span class="qt0">Diabetes</span>
and Digestive and Kidney Diseases</p></content>

Â <content name="mesh">Hypoglycemic Agents</content>

Â <content name="mesh">Insulin</content>

Â <content name="groupName">Endocrine System</content>

Â <content name="groupName">Drug Therapy</content>

Â <content name="groupName"><span class="qt0">Diabetes
Mellitus</span></content>

Â <content name="snippet">... food choices and physical activity, you may need
<span class="qt0">diabetes</span> <span class="qt1">medicines. The kind of
medicine</span> you take depends on ... combination pills. Combination pills
contain two kinds of <span class="qt0">diabetes</span> <span
class="qt1">medicine</span> in one tablet. Some people take pills and
...</content>

Â </document>

### Content Element Description for _topic_ and _all_ Retrieval Types

For rettype=topic there will be one content node content@name=healthTopic.
This content node will be followed by the health topic data in XML. For
complete documentation on the MedlinePlus health topic XML format, see the
MedlinePlus XML files page, DTD, and description.

For rettype=all, all the above content nodes may be present, since this
rettype returns both the _brief_ and _topic_ formats.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 7 November 2019

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

