Link: https://medlineplus.gov/cosmetics.html    
                                Description: Cosmetics are products you use on your body to clean it, beautify it, or change how it looks. An example is makeup. Read about using cosmetics safely.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Cosmetics

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/cosmetics.html

#  Cosmetics

Also called: Makeup

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Health Check Tools

### Research

    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Teenagers
    * Women

## Summary

Cosmetics are products you apply to your body to clean it, make it more
attractive, or change the way it looks. They include

    * Hair dyes 
    * Makeup 
    * Perfumes 
    * Skin-care creams 

Cosmetics that treat or prevent diseases are also drugs. Products such as
dandruff shampoo, fluoride toothpaste, and antiperspirant deodorant are both
cosmetics and drugs. A good way to tell if you're buying a cosmetic that is
also a drug is to see if the first ingredient listed is an "active
ingredient." The active ingredient is the chemical that makes the product
effective. The manufacturer must have proof that it's safe for its intended
use.

Cosmetics can cause allergic reactions. The first sign is often red and
irritated skin. Fragrances and preservatives are the most common causes of
skin problems.

To find out all the ingredients in a cosmetic you use, check the container.
Manufacturers are required to list them. Labels such as "natural" and
"hypoallergenic" have no official meaning. Companies can use them to mean
whatever they want.

Food and Drug Administration

## Start Here

    * Cosmetics and Personal Care Products (National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences)
    * Is It a Cosmetic, a Drug, or Both? (or Is It Soap?) (Food and Drug Administration) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * 'Colored' and Decorative Contact Lenses: A Prescription Is a Must (Food and Drug Administration) Also in Spanish
    * Antiperspirants/Deodorants and Breast Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Bad Reaction to Cosmetics? (Food and Drug Administration)
    * Cosmetics Safety Q&A: Shelf Life (Food and Drug Administration)
    * Eye Cosmetic Safety (Food and Drug Administration)
    * Is It Really FDA Approved? (Food and Drug Administration)

## Specifics

    * Alpha Hydroxy Acids (Food and Drug Administration)
    * Fragrances in Cosmetics (Food and Drug Administration)
    * Hair Dye (National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences)
    * Hair Dye and Hair Relaxers ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (Food and Drug Administration) Also in Spanish
    * How Safe Are Color Additives? (Food and Drug Administration)
    * Kohl, Kajal, Al-Kahl, or Surma: By Any Name, Beware of Lead Poisoning (Food and Drug Administration)
    * Lipstick and Lead: Questions and Answers (Food and Drug Administration)
    * Mercury Poisoning Linked to Skin Products (Food and Drug Administration) Also in Spanish
    * Moisturizers: Options for Softer Skin (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Nail Care Products (Food and Drug Administration)
    * Novelty Makeup (Food and Drug Administration)
    * Talc (Food and Drug Administration)
    * Tattoos and Permanent Make-Up ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (Food and Drug Administration) Also in Spanish

## Health Check Tools

    * How Smart Are You About Cosmetics? (Food and Drug Administration)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Effect of Sunscreen Application on Plasma Concentration of Sunscreen Active Ingredients:...
    * Article: Sunburn-related variables, secular trends of improved sun protection and short-term impact...
    * Article: Improving Photoprotection and Implications for 25(OH)D Formation.
    * Cosmetics -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * American Academy of Dermatology
    * Food and Drug Administration

## Teenagers

    * Makeup (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health)

## Women

    * Cosmetics and Pregnancy (Food and Drug Administration)

## Topic Image

![Cosmetics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cosmetics.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Bubble bath soap poisoning
    * Cold wave lotion poisoning
    * Cologne poisoning
    * Contact dermatitis
    * Cuticle remover poisoning
    * Deodorant poisoning
    * Face powder poisoning
    * Hair bleach poisoning
    * Hair dye poisoning
    * Hair spray poisoning
    * Hair straightener poisoning
    * Hair tonic poisoning
    * Hand lotion poisoning
    * Lip moisturizer poisoning
    * Mouthwash overdose
    * Nail polish poisoning
    * Shampoo - swallowing
    * Shaving cream poisoning
    * Swallowing soap
    * Toothpaste overdose

Show More Show Less

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 2 May 2019 Topic last reviewed: 3 January 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

