Link: https://medlineplus.gov/parathyroiddisorders.html    
                                Description: Too much or too little parathyroid hormone affects the right balance of calcium and phosphorous in your body, which can lead to parathyroid disorders.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Parathyroid Disorders

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/parathyroiddisorders.html

#  Parathyroid Disorders

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Most people have four pea-sized glands, called parathyroid glands, on the
thyroid gland in the neck. Though their names are similar, the thyroid and
parathyroid glands are completely different. The parathyroid glands make
parathyroid hormone (PTH), which helps your body keep the right balance of
calcium and phosphorous.

If your parathyroid glands make too much or too little hormone, it disrupts
this balance. If they secrete extra PTH, you have hyperparathyroidism, and
your blood calcium rises. In many cases, a benign tumor on a parathyroid gland
makes it overactive. Or, the extra hormones can come from enlarged parathyroid
glands. Very rarely, the cause is cancer.

If you do not have enough PTH, you have hypoparathyroidism. Your blood will
have too little calcium and too much phosphorous. Causes include injury to the
glands, endocrine disorders, or genetic conditions. Treatment is aimed at
restoring the balance of calcium and phosphorous.

NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Start Here

    * About Hypoparathyroidism ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development)
    * About the Parathyroid Glands (American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists)
    * General Information about Parathyroid Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Primary Hyperparathyroidism ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Calcium Blood Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Calcium in Urine Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * How Do Health Care Providers Diagnose Hypoparathyroidism? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development)
    * Parathyroid Hormone (PTH) Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Phosphate in Blood ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Stages of Parathyroid Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Vitamin D Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * How Is Hypoparathyroidism Treated? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development)
    * Parathyroid Cancer Treatment ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Parathyroidectomy - slideshow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Treatment Option Overview (Parathyroid Cancer) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * High Blood Calcium (Hypercalcemia) (Hormone Health Network) Also in Spanish
    * Hypercalcemia (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Mineral & Bone Disorder in Chronic Kidney Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Specifics

    * Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type I ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
    * Primary Hyperparathyroidism (Hormone Health Network) \- In English and Spanish

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: familial isolated hyperparathyroidism ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: hyperparathyroidism-jaw tumor syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: parathyroid cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Learning about Velocardiofacial Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Human Genome Research Institute)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hyperparathyroidism ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hypoparathyroidism ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Parathyroid Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Parathyroid Tumor Microenvironment.
    * Article: Added value of 18F-fluorocholine positron emission tomography-computed tomography in presurgical localization...
    * Article: Incidence of Hypoparathyroidism After Thyroid Cancer Surgery in South Korea, 2007-2016.
    * Parathyroid Disorders -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Endocrine System (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Find an Expert

    * Find an Endocrinologist (Hormone Health Network)
    * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Patient Handouts

    * Calcium - ionized (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Calcium - urine (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Calcium blood test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Hypercalcemia - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Hyperparathyroidism (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Hypoparathyroidism (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Parathyroid adenoma (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Parathyroid biopsy (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Parathyroid cancer (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Parathyroid gland removal (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Parathyroid hormone (PTH) blood test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Parathyroid
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ParathyroidDisorders.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Calcium - ionized
    * Calcium - urine
    * Calcium blood test
    * Hypercalcemia
    * Hypercalcemia - discharge
    * Hyperparathyroidism
    * Hypoparathyroidism
    * Osteitis fibrosa
    * Parathyroid adenoma
    * Parathyroid biopsy
    * Parathyroid cancer
    * Parathyroid gland removal
    * Parathyroid hormone (PTH) blood test
    * Parathyroid hormone-related protein blood test
    * Parathyroid hyperplasia
    * Parathyroidectomy - slideshow
    * Phosphorus blood test

Show More Show Less

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Parathyroid Disorders is the
National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Parathyroid
Disorders_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 2 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 13 June 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

