Link: https://medlineplus.gov/transientischemicattack.html    
                                Description: Transient ischemic attack (TIA) is a mini stroke. Even though the symptoms come and go, learn why TIA needs medical attention right away.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Transient Ischemic Attack

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/transientischemicattack.html

#  Transient Ischemic Attack

Also called: Mini-stroke, TIA

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Symptoms
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues

### See, Play and Learn

    * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

A transient ischemic attack (TIA) is a stroke that lasts only a few minutes.
It happens when the blood supply to part of the brain is briefly blocked.
Symptoms of a TIA are like other stroke symptoms, but do not last as long.
They happen suddenly, and include

    * Numbness or weakness, especially on one side of the body
    * Confusion or trouble speaking or understanding speech
    * Trouble seeing in one or both eyes
    * Difficulty walking
    * Dizziness
    * Loss of balance or coordination

Most symptoms of a TIA disappear within an hour, although they may last for up
to 24 hours. Because you cannot tell if these symptoms are from a TIA or a
stroke, you should go to the hospital right away.

TIAs are often a warning sign for future strokes. Taking medicine, such as
blood thinners, may reduce your risk of a stroke. Your doctor might also
recommend surgery. You can also help lower your risk by having a healthy
lifestyle. This includes not smoking, not drinking too much, eating a healthy
diet, and exercising. It is also important to control other health problems,
such as high blood pressure and cholesterol.

NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Start Here

    * TIA (Transient Ischemic Attack) (American Stroke Association)
    * Transient Ischemic Attack ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * What is a TIA (American Heart Association)

## Symptoms

    * Stroke Risk Factors and Symptoms ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) Also in Spanish
    * Stroke Symptoms (American Stroke Association)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Carotid Ultrasound Imaging (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) -- Head ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Carotid Endarterectomy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)
    * What Is a Stent? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Blood Thinners: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Stroke (Society of Interventional Radiology)

## Related Issues

    * Mini-Stroke vs. Regular Stroke: What's the Difference? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Recovery After Stroke (American Stroke Association)

## Videos and Tutorials

    * Transient Ischemic Attack ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (American Heart Association)

## Statistics and Research

    * Heart Disease and Stroke Statistics (American Heart Association)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Ischemic Attack, Transient ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Study on the risk prediction for cerebral infarction after transient ischemic...
    * Article: Clinical Relevance of Orthostatic Hypotension in Patients with Atrial Fibrillation and...
    * Article: Ambient fine particulate matter and hospital admissions for ischemic and hemorrhagic...
    * Transient Ischemic Attack -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * American Heart Association
    * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Transient ischemic attack (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Vertebrobasilar circulatory disorders (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Transient Ischemic
Attack](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TransientIschemicAttack.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Head MRI
    * Transient ischemic attack
    * Vertebrobasilar circulatory disorders

## Related Health Topics

    * Ischemic Stroke
    * Stroke

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Transient Ischemic Attack is the
National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 13 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 3 May 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

