Link: https://medlineplus.gov/marijuana.html    
                                Description: Marijuana contains the mind-altering chemical THC. Some U.S. states approve the use of medical marijuana. Read about marijuana and its effects.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Marijuana

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/marijuana.html

#  Marijuana

Also called: Cannabis, Ganja, Grass, Hash, Pot, Weed

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Teenagers
    * Women
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is marijuana?

Marijuana is a green, brown, or gray mix of dried, crumbled parts from the
marijuana plant. The plant contains chemicals which act on your brain and can
change your mood or consciousness.

### How do people use marijuana?

There are many different ways that people use marijuana, including

    * Rolling it up and smoking it like a cigarette or cigar
    * Smoking it in a pipe
    * Mixing it in food and eating it
    * Brewing it as a tea
    * Smoking oils from the plant ("dabbing")
    * Using electronic vaporizers ("vaping")

### What are the effects of marijuana?

Marijuana can cause both short-term and long-term effects.

**Short term:**

While you are high, you may experience

    * Altered senses, such as seeing brighter colors
    * Altered sense of time, such as minutes seeming like hours
    * Changes in mood
    * Problems with body movement
    * Trouble with thinking, problem-solving, and memory
    * Increased appetite

**Long term:**

In the long term, marijuana can cause health problems, such as

    * Problems with brain development. People who started using marijuana as teenagers may have trouble with thinking, memory, and learning.
    * Coughing and breathing problems, if you smoke marijuana frequently
    * Problems with child development during and after pregnancy, if a woman smokes marijuana while pregnant

### Can you overdose on marijuana?

It is possible to overdose on marijuana, if you take a very high dose.
Symptoms of an overdose include anxiety, panic, and a rapid heartbeat. In rare
cases, an overdose can cause paranoia and hallucinations. There are no reports
of people dying from using just marijuana.

### Is marijuana addictive?

After using marijuana for a while, it is possible to get addicted to it. You
are more likely to become addicted if you use marijuana every day or you
started using it when you were a teenager. If you are addicted, you will have
a strong need to take the drug. You may also need to smoke more and more of it
to get the same high. When you try to quit, you may have mild withdrawal
symptoms such as

    * Irritability
    * Trouble sleeping
    * Decreased appetite
    * Anxiety
    * Cravings

### What is medical marijuana?

The marijuana plant has chemicals that can help with some health problems.
More states are making it legal to use the plant as medicine for certain
medical conditions. But there isn't enough research to show that the whole
plant works to treat or cure these conditions. The U.S. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) has not approved the marijuana plant as a medicine.
Marijuana is still illegal at the national level.

However, there have been scientific studies of cannabinoids, the chemicals in
marijuana. The two main cannabinoids that are of medical interest are THC and
CBD. The FDA has approved two drugs that contain THC. These drugs treat nausea
caused by chemotherapy and increase appetite in patients who have severe
weight loss from AIDS. There is also a liquid drug that contains CBD. It
treats two forms of severe childhood epilepsy. Scientists are doing more
research with marijuana and its ingredients to treat many diseases and
conditions.

NIH: National Institute on Drug Abuse

## Start Here

    * Cannabis and Cannabinoids (PDQ) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Marijuana ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse)
    * Marijuana ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish
    * Marijuana (Weed, Pot) Facts ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish
    * Marijuana: Facts Parents Need to Know ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Drug Testing ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Signs of Marijuana Abuse and Addiction ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Treatment Approaches for Drug Addiction ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish
    * What Is Substance Abuse Treatment? A Booklet for Families (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Does Marijuana Help Treat Glaucoma? (American Academy of Ophthalmology) Also in Spanish
    * How Does Marijuana Use Affect School, Work, and Social Life? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish
    * Is Marijuana Medicine? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish
    * Medical Marijuana (Cannabis) and Multiple Sclerosis (National Multiple Sclerosis Society)
    * Smoking Marijuana and the Lungs (American Thoracic Society) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * What You Need to Know (And What We're Working to Find Out) About Products Containing Cannabis or Cannabis-derived Compounds, Including CBD (Food and Drug Administration)

## Specifics

    * What Are Synthetic Cannabinoids? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish

## Images

    * Marijuana (Drug Enforcement Administration)

## Statistics and Research

    * Among High School Seniors, Driving After Marijuana Use Surpasses Drunk Driving ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse)
    * Medical Marijuana in Certain Neurological Disorders (American Academy of Neurology) \- PDF
    * Regular Marijuana Users May Have Impaired Brain Reward Centers ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse)
    * Research Reports: Marijuana ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse)
    * State Estimates of Adolescent Marijuana Use and Perceptions of Risk of Harm from Marijuana Use: 2013 and 2014 (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Cannabinoids ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Marijuana Abuse ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Marijuana Use ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Medical Marijuana ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Would decriminalising personal use of cannabis lead to higher rates of...
    * Article: Trends and associated factors of use of opioid, heroin, and cannabis...
    * Article: The Intersection of Tobacco and Marijuana Use in Adolescents and Young...
    * Marijuana -- see more articles
    * Medicinal marijuana -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Behavioral Health Treatment Services Locator (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration)
    * Drug Enforcement Administration
    * National Institute on Drug Abuse ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
    * Partnership at Drugfree.org (Partnership for a Drug-Free America)

## Teenagers

    * Marijuana and Teens (American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry)
    * Marijuana: Facts for Teens ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish
    * What happens to your brain when you use marijuana? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish
    * What Is Spice? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse)

## Women

    * Marijuana and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * What You Should Know About Using Cannabis, Including CBD, When Pregnant or Breastfeeding (Food and Drug Administration) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Marijuana intoxication (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Medical marijuana (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Substance use -- marijuana (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Tips for Teens: The Truth about Marijuana (National Clearinghouse for Alcohol and Drug Information) \- PDF

## Topic Image

![Marijuana](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Marijuana.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Marijuana intoxication
    * Medical marijuana
    * Substance use -- marijuana

## Related Health Topics

    * Drug Use and Addiction

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Marijuana is the National
Institute on Drug Abuse

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Marijuana_

## NIH MedlinePlus Magazine

    * ABCs of CBD: Separating Fact from Fiction

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 3 July 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

