Link: https://medlineplus.gov/mentaldisorders.html    
                                Description: Mental disorders (also called mental illness) include a wide range of problems. There are many causes. Learn more about what can help.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Mental Disorders

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/mentaldisorders.html

#  Mental Disorders

Also called: Mental illness

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Health Check Tools

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Women
    * Older Adults
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What are mental disorders?

Mental disorders (or mental illnesses) are conditions that affect your
thinking, feeling, mood, and behavior. They may be occasional or long-lasting
(chronic). They can affect your ability to relate to others and function each
day.

### What are some types of mental disorders?

There are many different types of mental disorders. Some common ones include

    * Anxiety disorders, including panic disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and phobias
    * Depression, bipolar disorder, and other mood disorders
    * Eating disorders
    * Personality disorders
    * Post-traumatic stress disorder
    * Psychotic disorders, including schizophrenia

### What causes mental disorders?

There is no single cause for mental illness. A number of factors can
contribute to risk for mental illness, such as

    * Your genes and family history
    * Your life experiences, such as stress or a history of abuse, especially if they happen in childhood
    * Biological factors such as chemical imbalances in the brain
    * A traumatic brain injury
    * A mother's exposure to viruses or toxic chemicals while pregnant
    * Use of alcohol or recreational drugs
    * Having a serious medical condition like cancer
    * Having few friends, and feeling lonely or isolated

Mental disorders are not caused by character flaws. They have nothing to do
with being lazy or weak.

### Who is at risk for mental disorders?

Mental disorders are common. More than half of all Americans will be diagnosed
with a mental disorder at some time in their life.

### How are mental disorders diagnosed?

The steps to getting a diagnosis include

    * A medical history
    * A physical exam and possibly lab tests, if your provider thinks that other medical conditions could be causing your symptoms
    * A psychological evaluation. You will answer questions about your thinking, feelings, and behaviors.

### What are the treatments for mental disorders?

Treatment depends on which mental disorder you have and how serious it is. You
and your provider will work on a treatment plan just for you. It usually
involves some type of therapy. You may also take medicines. Some people also
need social support and education on managing their condition.

In some cases, you may need more intensive treatment. You may need to go to a
psychiatric hospital. This could be because your mental illness is severe. Or
it could be because you are at risk of hurting yourself or someone else. In
the hospital, you will get counseling, group discussions, and activities with
mental health professionals and other patients.

## Start Here

    * Mental Illness (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Warning Signs of Mental Illnesses (American Psychiatric Association) \- PDF

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Mental Health Screening ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Mental Health: What's Normal, What's Not? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Brain Stimulation Therapies ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Mental Health)
    * How to Choose a Psychologist (American Psychological Association)
    * Integrated Care ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Mental Health)
    * Meditation ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Mental Health Medications ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Mental Health)
    * Mental Health Providers: Credentials, Services Offered and What to Expect (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Psychotherapies ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Mental Health)
    * Technology and the Future of Mental Health Treatment ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Mental Health)
    * Therapy and Counseling (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * What Is Psychiatry? ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (American Psychiatric Association)

## Living With

    * Mental Illness and the Family: Recognizing the Warning Signs & How to Cope (Mental Health America)
    * What Individuals in Recovery Need to Know About Wellness (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Functional Movement Disorder ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Mental Health: Overcoming the Stigma of Mental Illness (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Psychiatric Advance Directives: Getting Started (National Resource Center on Psychiatric Advance Directives)
    * Rural Mental Health (Rural Health Information Hub)
    * Take Action against Hepatitis C (for People in Recovery from Mental Illness or Addiction) (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration) \- PDF
    * Tardive Dyskinesia (NAMI)

## Specifics

    * Body Dysmorphic Disorder (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Depersonalization-Derealization Disorder (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Dissociative Disorders (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Factitious Disorder (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Hypochondria (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Intermittent Explosive Disorder (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Kleptomania (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Normal Stress or Adjustment Disorder? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Somatic Symptom and Related Disorders (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: Perry syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Health Check Tools

    * Mental Health Screening Center (Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance)

## Statistics and Research

    * Behavioral Health Equity (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration)
    * FastStats: Mental Health (National Center for Health Statistics)
    * Learn About Mental Health (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Mental Illness Statistics ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Mental Health)
    * Results from the 2013 National Survey on Drug Use and Health: Mental Health Findings (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration)

## Clinical Trials

    * Clinical Research Trials and You: Questions and Answers ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Mental Health) Also in Spanish
    * Clinical Trials - Information for Participants ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Mental Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Mental Disorders ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Mental health disorders -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * American Psychiatric Association
    * APA District Branch / State Association Directory (American Psychiatric Association)
    * Behavioral Health Treatment Services Locator (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration)
    * Find Your Local NAMI (NAMI)
    * Help for Mental Illnesses ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Mental Health)
    * NAMI
    * National Institute of Mental Health ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
    * Psychologist Locator (American Psychological Association)
    * State by State Info (Psychiatric Advance Directives) (National Resource Center on Psychiatric Advance Directives)
    * Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration

## Children

    * Child Mental Health: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

    * Teen Mental Health: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Women

    * Women and Mental Health ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Mental Health)

## Older Adults

    * Older Adults and Mental Health ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Mental Health)

## Patient Handouts

    * Adjustment disorder (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Conversion disorder (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Illness anxiety disorder (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Somatic symptom disorder (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Mental Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MentalDisorder.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Adjustment disorder
    * Conversion disorder
    * Electroconvulsive therapy
    * Illness anxiety disorder
    * Munchausen syndrome by proxy
    * Somatic symptom disorder

## Related Health Topics

    * Anxiety
    * Bipolar Disorder
    * Child Mental Health
    * Compulsive Gambling
    * Delirium
    * Depression
    * Eating Disorders
    * Mental Health
    * Mood Disorders
    * Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder
    * Panic Disorder
    * Personality Disorders
    * Phobias
    * Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder
    * Psychotic Disorders
    * Schizophrenia
    * Self-Harm
    * Suicide
    * Teen Mental Health

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Mental Disorders is the National
Institute of Mental Health

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Mental Disorders_

## NIH MedlinePlus Magazine

    * Removing the Stigma from Men's Mental Health

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 3 April 2020 Topic last reviewed: 15 September 2014

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

