Link: https://medlineplus.gov/thalassemia.html    
                                Description: Thalassemias are inherited blood disorders. They affect your ability to make hemoglobin. This can cause anemia. Learn about the types and treatments.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Thalassemia

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/thalassemia.html

#  Thalassemia

Also called: Cooley's anemia, Mediterranean anemia

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Thalassemias are inherited blood disorders. If you have one, your body makes
fewer healthy red blood cells and less hemoglobin. Hemoglobin is a protein
that carries oxygen to the body. That leads to anemia. Thalassemias occur most
often among people of Italian, Greek, Middle Eastern, Southern Asian, and
African descent.

Thalassemias can be mild or severe. Some people have no symptoms or mild
anemia. The most common severe type in the United States is called Cooley's
anemia. It usually appears during the first two years of life. People with it
may have severe anemia, slowed growth and delayed puberty, and problems with
the spleen, liver, heart, or bones.

Doctors diagnose thalassemias using blood tests. Treatments include blood
transfusions and treatment to remove excess iron from the body. If you have
mild symptoms or no symptoms, you may not need treatment. In some severe
cases, you may need a bone marrow transplant.

NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Start Here

    * About Thalassemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Human Genome Research Institute)
    * Facts about Thalassemia (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Thalassemia (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Thalassemia (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Thalassemias ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Hemoglobinopathy Evaluation (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Iron Chelation (Aplastic Anemia & MDS International Foundation)
    * Thalassemia: Complications and Treatment (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * What Is a Blood Transfusion? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Living With

    * My Story: Real Stories of People Living with Thalassemia (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Nutrition and Diet (Northern California Comprehensive Thalassemia Center)
    * Thalassemia (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Thalassemia: Healthy Living (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Low Bone Mass in Thalassemia (Cooley's Anemia Foundation) \- PDF

## Specifics

    * About Thalassemia (Cooley's Anemia Foundation)
    * Alpha Thalassemia (Cooley's Anemia Foundation) \- PDF
    * Beta Thalassemia (Cooley's Anemia Foundation) \- PDF

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: alpha thalassemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: alpha thalassemia X-linked intellectual disability syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: beta thalassemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * What Is Thalassemia Trait? (Cooley's Anemia Foundation) \- PDF

## Videos and Tutorials

    * What Is Beta-Thalassemia? (Dolan DNA Learning Center)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: beta-Thalassemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Thalassemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: A Phase 3 Trial of Luspatercept in Patients with Transfusion-Dependent Î²-Thalassemia.
    * Article: Sickle cell disease and thalassaemia antenatal screening programme in England over...
    * Article: Thalassaemia.
    * Thalassemia -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
    * Thalassemia Care Centers (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Children

    * Alpha Thalassemia (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Beta Thalassemia (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Thalassemia (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Thalassemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Thalassemia.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Hemoglobinuria test
    * Osmotic fragility test
    * Thalassemia

## Related Health Topics

    * Anemia

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Thalassemia is the National
Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 10 December 2019 Topic last reviewed: 16 December 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

