Link: https://medlineplus.gov/clubdrugs.html    
                                Description: Club drugs are group of psychoactive drugs popular at bars, night clubs, and raves. They include MDMA (Ecstasy), GHB, and others. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Club Drugs

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/clubdrugs.html

#  Club Drugs

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Teenagers
    * Women
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What are club drugs?

Club drugs are group of psychoactive drugs. They act on the central nervous
system and can cause changes in mood, awareness, and behavior. These drugs are
most often used by young adults at bars, concerts, nightclubs, and parties.
Club drugs, like most drugs, have nicknames that change over time or are
different in different areas of the country.

### What are the different types of club drugs?

The most commonly used types of club drugs include

    * MDMA (Methylenedioxymethamphetamine), also called Ecstasy and Molly
    * GHB (Gamma-hydroxybutyrate), also known as G and Liquid Ecstasy
    * Ketamine, also known as Special K and K
    * Rohypnol, also known as Roofies
    * Methamphetamine, also known as Speed, Ice, and, Meth
    * LSD (Lysergic Acid Diethylamide), also known as Acid

Some of these drugs are approved for certain medical uses. Other uses of these
drugs are misuse.

### What are date rape drugs?

Date rape drugs are any type of drug or alcohol used to make sexual assault
easier. Someone could put one in your drink when you are not looking. Or you
may be drinking alcohol or taking a drug, and a person may make it stronger
without you knowing.

Club drugs are also sometimes used as "date rape" drugs. These drugs are very
powerful. They can affect you very quickly, and you might not know that
something is wrong. The length of time that the effects last varies. It
depends on how much of the drug is in your body and if the drug is mixed with
other drugs or alcohol. Alcohol can make the effects of drugs even stronger
and can cause serious health problems - even death.

### Are there steps I can take to protect myself from date rape drugs?

To try to avoid date rape drugs,

    * Never leave your drink unattended
    * Don't accept drinks from other people
    * If drinking from a can or bottle, open your drink yourself
    * Look out for your friends, and ask them to look out for you

## Start Here

    * Club Drug Use (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Club Drugs ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish
    * Hallucinogens ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish
    * MDMA (Ecstasy/Molly) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Treatment Approaches for Drug Addiction ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * GHB - Gamma-Hydroxybutyric Acid (Drug Enforcement Administration)
    * Ketamine (Drug Enforcement Administration)
    * Other Drugs People Use and Misuse ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hallucinogens ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Amphetamine dependence in Australia.
    * Article: New psychoactive substances (NPS) prevalence over LSD in blotter seized in...
    * Article: Disrupted resting-state brain functional network in methamphetamine abusers: A brain source...
    * Club Drugs -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Behavioral Health Treatment Services Locator (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration)
    * Drug Enforcement Administration
    * National Institute on Drug Abuse ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
    * Partnership at Drugfree.org (Partnership for a Drug-Free America)

## Teenagers

    * Amphetamines (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * GHB (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Ketamine (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * LSD (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * MDMA (Ecstasy or Molly) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse)
    * PCP (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Rohypnol (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Women

    * Date Rape Drugs (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Substance use -- amphetamines (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Substance use -- LSD (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Substance use -- phencyclidine (PCP) (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Club Drugs](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Clubdrugs.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Substance use -- amphetamines
    * Substance use -- LSD
    * Substance use -- phencyclidine (PCP)

## Related Health Topics

    * Drug Use and Addiction
    * Methamphetamine

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Club Drugs is the National
Institute on Drug Abuse

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 1 November 2019 Topic last reviewed: 28 December 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

