Link: https://medlineplus.gov/menieresdisease.html    
                                Description: Meniere&#39;s disease is a disorder of the inner ear. Symptoms include severe dizziness, tinnitus, hearing loss, and ear pressure or pain. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Meniere's Disease

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/menieresdisease.html

#  Meniere's Disease

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests

### Learn More

    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Meniere's disease is a disorder of the inner ear. It can cause severe
dizziness, a roaring sound in your ears called tinnitus, hearing loss that
comes and goes and the feeling of ear pressure or pain. It usually affects
just one ear. It is a common cause of hearing loss.

Attacks of dizziness may come on suddenly or after a short period of tinnitus
or muffled hearing. Some people have single attacks of dizziness once in a
while. Others may have many attacks close together over several days. Some
people with Meniere's disease have "drop attacks" during which the dizziness
is so bad they lose their balance and fall.

Scientists don't yet know the cause. They think that it has to do with the
fluid levels or the mixing of fluids in the canals of your inner ear. Doctors
diagnose it based on a physical exam and your symptoms. A hearing test can
check to see how it has affected your hearing.

There is no cure. Treatments include medicines to control dizziness, limiting
salt in your diet, and taking water pills. A device that fits into the outer
ear and delivers air pulses to the middle ear can help. Severe cases may
require surgery.

NIH: National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders

## Start Here

    * Meniere's Disease (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Meniere's Disease (American Academy of Otolaryngology--Head and Neck Surgery)
    * Meniere's Disease (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * MÃ©niÃ¨re's Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Balance Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Videonystagmography (VNG) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: MÃ©niÃ¨re disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Meniere Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Vestibular Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Are viral-infections associated with MÃ©niÃ¨re's Disease? A systematic review and meta-analysis...
    * Article: Are Meniere's disease patients with otolith organ impairment more likely to...
    * Article: MeniÃ¨re's disease treated by grommet insertion.
    * Meniere's Disease -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * NIDCD Glossary ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders)

## Find an Expert

    * Directory of Organizations (Deafness and Communication Disorders) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders)
    * Find an ENT (American Academy of Otolaryngology--Head and Neck Surgery)
    * National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
    * Support Group Directory (Vestibular Disorders Association)

## Patient Handouts

    * MÃ©niÃ¨re disease (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * MÃ©niÃ¨re's disease - self-care (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Meniere's Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MenieresDisease.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Caloric stimulation
    * MÃ©niÃ¨re disease
    * MÃ©niÃ¨re's disease - self-care

## Related Health Topics

    * Dizziness and Vertigo
    * Ear Disorders
    * Hearing Disorders and Deafness

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Meniere's Disease is the National
Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 6 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 15 September 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

