Link: https://medlineplus.gov/myastheniagravis.html    
                                Description: Myasthenia gravis (MG) is an autoimmune disease that weakens the muscles under your control.  Find out about MG causes, symptoms, and treatment.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Myasthenia Gravis

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/myastheniagravis.html

#  Myasthenia Gravis

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Myasthenia gravis is a disease that causes weakness in your voluntary muscles.
These are the muscles that you control. For example, you may have weakness in
the muscles for eye movement, facial expressions, and swallowing. You can also
have weakness in other muscles. This weakness gets worse with activity, and
better with rest.

Myasthenia gravis is an autoimmune disease. Your body's immune system makes
antibodies that block or change some of the nerve signals to your muscles.
This makes your muscles weaker.

Other conditions can cause muscle weakness, so myasthenia gravis can be hard
to diagnose. Tests used to make a diagnosis include blood, nerve, muscle, and
imaging tests.

With treatment, the muscle weakness often gets much better. Medicines can help
improve nerve-to-muscle messages and make muscles stronger. Other drugs keep
your body from making so many abnormal antibodies. These medicines can have
major side effects, so they should be used carefully. There are also
treatments which filter abnormal antibodies from the blood or add healthy
antibodies from donated blood. Sometimes, surgery to take out the thymus gland
helps.

Some people with myasthenia gravis go into remission. This means that they do
not have symptoms. The remission is usually temporary, but sometimes it can be
permanent.

NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Start Here

    * Myasthenia Gravis (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Myasthenia Gravis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) \- Short Summary
    * Myasthenia Gravis Fact Sheet (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health) Also in Spanish
    * Myasthenia Gravis, Lambert-Eaton Myasthenic Syndrome & Congenital Myasthenic Syndromes (Muscular Dystrophy Association) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Electromyography (EMG) and Nerve Conduction Studies ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Myasthenia Gravis Tests (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Myasthenia Gravis (MG): Medical Management (Muscular Dystrophy Association)

## Related Issues

    * Employees with Myasthenia Gravis (Office of Disability Employment Policy)

## Specifics

    * Congenital Myasthenia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: myasthenia gravis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Myasthenia Gravis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Muscle involvement in myasthenia gravis: Expanding the clinical spectrum of Myasthenia-Myositis...
    * Article: Myasthenia gravis, Guillain-BarrÃ© syndrome, or both?
    * Article: Lower number of plasma exchange sessions and glomerular filtration rate decline...
    * Myasthenia Gravis -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Children

    * Myasthenia Gravis (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)

## Patient Handouts

    * Acetylcholine receptor antibody (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Myasthenia gravis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Myasthenia Gravis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MyastheniaGravis.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Acetylcholine receptor antibody
    * Myasthenia gravis
    * Tensilon test

## Related Health Topics

    * Muscle Disorders

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Myasthenia Gravis is the National
Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 20 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 11 December 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

