Link: https://medlineplus.gov/tumorsandpregnancy.html    
                                Description: Tumors during pregnancy are rare, but they can happen. Treatment depends on the type of tumor, whether it has spread, and your overall health.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Tumors and Pregnancy

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/tumorsandpregnancy.html

#  Tumors and Pregnancy

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Tumors during pregnancy are rare, but they can happen. Tumors can be either
benign or malignant. Benign tumors aren't cancer. Malignant ones are. The most
common cancers in pregnancy are breast cancer, cervical cancer, lymphoma, and
melanoma. Cancer itself rarely harms the baby, and some cancer treatments are
safe during pregnancy. You and your health care provider will work together to
find the best treatment. Your options will depend on how far along the
pregnancy is, as well as the type, size, and stage of your cancer.

Another type of tumor that women can get is called a gestational trophoblastic
disease (GTD). It happens when a fertilized egg doesn't become a fetus. GTD is
not always easy to find. It is usually benign, but some types can be
malignant. The most common type of GTD is a molar pregnancy. In its early
stages, it may look like a normal pregnancy. You should see your health care
provider if you have vaginal bleeding (not menstrual bleeding).

Treatment depends on the type of tumor, whether it has spread to other places,
and your overall health.

## Start Here

    * Cancer during Pregnancy (American Society of Clinical Oncology)
    * General Information about Breast Cancer and Pregnancy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * General Information about Gestational Trophoblastic Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * How Is Gestational Trophoblastic Disease Diagnosed? (American Cancer Society)
    * Stages of Gestational Trophoblastic Tumors and Neoplasia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Gestational Trophoblastic Disease Treatment ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Treatment of Breast Cancer during Pregnancy (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * Treatment Options for Hodgkin Lymphoma during Pregnancy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Diethylstilbestrol (DES) and Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Do We Know What Causes Gestational Trophoblastic Disease? (American Cancer Society)
    * Other Considerations for Pregnancy and Breast Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)

## Specifics

    * Molar Pregnancy (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Pheochromocytoma during Pregnancy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Thyroid Nodules and Pregnancy (Hormone Health Network)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Cancer and Pregnancy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Gestational Trophoblastic Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hydatidiform Mole ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Pregnancy Complications, Neoplastic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Pulmonary metastases increase chemotherapy resistance and recurrence of gestational trophoblastic neoplasia.
    * Article: Lung metastases in low-risk gestational trophoblastic neoplasia: a retrospective cohort study.
    * Article: Hereditary Cancer Syndromes and Risk Assessment: ACOG COMMITTEE OPINION, Number 793.
    * Tumors and Pregnancy -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * American Cancer Society
    * Find a Cancer Doctor (American Society of Clinical Oncology)
    * National Cancer Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Choriocarcinoma (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Gestational trophoblastic disease (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Hydatidiform mole (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Tumors and Pregnancy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TumorsandPregnancy.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Choriocarcinoma
    * Gestational trophoblastic disease
    * Hydatidiform mole

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Tumors and Pregnancy is the
National Cancer Institute

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 16 July 2019 Topic last reviewed: 8 August 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

