Link: https://medlineplus.gov/cancer.html    
                                Description: If you or someone you love has been diagnosed with cancer, learn about diagnosis, treatment, risk factors, and much more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Cancer

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/cancer.html

#  Cancer

Also called: Carcinoma, Malignancy, Neoplasms, Tumor

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Health Check Tools
    * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Men
    * Women
    * Older Adults
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Cancer begins in your cells, which are the building blocks of your body.
Normally, your body forms new cells as you need them, replacing old cells that
die. Sometimes this process goes wrong. New cells grow even when you don't
need them, and old cells don't die when they should. These extra cells can
form a mass called a tumor. Tumors can be benign or malignant. Benign tumors
aren't cancer while malignant ones are. Cells from malignant tumors can invade
nearby tissues. They can also break away and spread to other parts of the
body.

Cancer is not just one disease but many diseases. There are more than 100
different types of cancer. Most cancers are named for where they start. For
example, lung cancer starts in the lung, and breast cancer starts in the
breast. The spread of cancer from one part of the body to another is called
metastasis. Symptoms and treatment depend on the cancer type and how advanced
it is. Most treatment plans may include surgery, radiation and/or
chemotherapy. Some may involve hormone therapy, immunotherapy or other types
of biologic therapy, or stem cell transplantation.

NIH: National Cancer Institute

## Start Here

    * Cancer (American Academy of Family Physicians)
    * Cancer Basics (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * What Is Cancer? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Cancer Screening Overview (PDQ) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Cancer Staging ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Computed Tomography (CT) Scans and Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Exams and Test Descriptions (American Cancer Society)
    * Fine Needle Aspiration (American Academy of Otolaryngology--Head and Neck Surgery)
    * Karyotype Genetic Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Lactate Dehydrogenase (LDH) Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Pathology Reports ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Sentinel Lymph Node Biopsy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Tumor Grade ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Tumor Marker Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Tumor Markers ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Understanding Laboratory Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Antioxidants and Cancer Prevention ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Calcium and Cancer Prevention: Strengths and Limits of the Evidence ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Cancer Prevention Overview (PDQ) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Diet Choices to Prevent Cancer (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * How Is Cancer Risk Measured? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Risk Factors ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Vitamin, Mineral, and Multivitamin Supplements for the Primary Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease and Cancer (U.S. Preventive Services Task Force) \- PDF

## Treatments and Therapies

    * A to Z List of Cancer Drugs (National Cancer Institute)
    * Adjuvant Therapy: Treatment to Keep Cancer from Returning (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Angiogenesis Inhibitors ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Biological Therapies for Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Cancer Alternative Therapies: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Cancer Surgery: Physically Removing Cancer (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Cancer Treatment Scams (Federal Trade Commission) Also in Spanish
    * Hyperthermia in Cancer Treatment ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Immunotherapy (American Cancer Society)
    * Lasers in Cancer Treatment ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Managing Cancer Care - Finding Health Care Services ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Pain Control ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) \- PDF
    * Photodynamic Therapy for Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Targeted Cancer Therapies ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Treatment Option Overview (Carcinoma of Unknown Primary) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Treatment Option Overview (Extragonadal Germ Cell Tumors) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Living With

    * Cancer--Living with Cancer: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Cancer and Tobacco Use (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Cancer Causes: Popular Myths about the Causes of Cancer (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Cancer Clusters ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Chemicals in Meat Cooked at High Temperatures and Cancer Risk ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Common Cancer Myths and Misconceptions ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Cruciferous Vegetables and Cancer Prevention ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Family Caregivers in Cancer (PDQ) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Fluoridated Water ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Known and Probable Human Carcinogens (American Cancer Society)
    * Obesity and Cancer Risk ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Paraneoplastic Syndromes ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Physical Activity and Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Psychological Stress and Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Tobacco and Cancer (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * Vaccinations and Flu Shots for People with Cancer (American Cancer Society)
    * Vitamin D and Cancer Prevention ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * What Causes Cancer? (American Cancer Society)
    * When Cancer Returns ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)

## Specifics

    * General Information about Extragonadal Germ Cell Tumors ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Metastatic Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Occupational Cancer (National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health)

## Genetics

    * Genetic Testing for Hereditary Cancer Syndromes ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Genetics Home Reference: BAP1 tumor predisposition syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Bloom syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Cowden syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: DICER1 syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Peutz-Jeghers syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: rhabdoid tumor predisposition syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Werner syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Health Check Tools

    * Cancer Risk Questionnaire (Siteman Cancer Center)

## Videos and Tutorials

    * Understanding Cancer Prognosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (National Cancer Institute)

## Statistics and Research

    * Annual Report to the Nation on the Status of Cancer, 1975-2014, Featuring Survival ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Cancer and Obesity (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Cancer Care Gets Personal: How Tumor Treatments Are Changing ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
    * Cancer Care Widens Its Reach Reducing Cancer Health Disparities
    * Cancer Clinical Trials at the National Institutes of Health Clinical Center ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Cancer Data and Statistics Tools (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Cancer Facts and Figures 2014 (American Cancer Society)
    * Cancer Statistics ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Hair Dyes and Cancer Risk ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * NIH Study Offers Insight into Why Cancer Incidence Increases with Age ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences)
    * State Cancer Profiles ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Statistics: Number of Cancer Survivors ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Tea and Cancer Prevention: Strengths and Limits of the Evidence ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * Clinical Trials Information for Patients and Caregivers ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Carcinoma ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Neoplasms ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: National Cancer Control Program of Thailand.
    * Article: Circulating microRNAs as biomarkers in cancer diagnosis.
    * Article: Thyroid nodules: diagnostic evaluation based on thyroid cancer risk assessment.
    * Cancer -- see more articles
    * Cancer prevention -- see more articles
    * Cancer therapy -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Cancer Terms: After Treatment (American Society of Clinical Oncology)
    * Dictionary of Cancer Terms ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * National Cancer Institute News ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)

## Find an Expert

    * American Cancer Society
    * Find a Cancer Doctor (American Society of Clinical Oncology)
    * Finding Treatment Centers (American Cancer Society)
    * National Cancer Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
    * NCI Designated Cancer Centers ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Organizations That Offer Support Services ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Children

    * Cancer in Children: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Men

    * Cancer and Men (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Women

    * Cancer and Women (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Older Adults

    * Cancer in Older Adults (American Society of Clinical Oncology) \- PDF
    * Cancer: Unique to Older Adults (AGS Foundation for Health in Aging)

## Patient Handouts

    * Cancer (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Cancer and lymph nodes (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Cancer treatment -- early menopause (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Cancer treatment: preventing infection (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Cancer treatments (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * How to research cancer (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * How to tell your child that you have cancer (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Hyperthermia for treating cancer (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Laser therapy for cancer (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Photodynamic therapy for cancer (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Targeted therapies for cancer (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Understanding your cancer prognosis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Your cancer care team (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Your cancer diagnosis: Do you need a second opinion? (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cancer.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Cancer
    * Cancer and lymph nodes
    * Cancer prevention: take charge of your lifestyle
    * Cancer treatment -- early menopause
    * Cancer treatment: preventing infection
    * Cancer treatments
    * CEA blood test
    * CSF analysis
    * CSF cell count
    * Diet and cancer
    * Ectopic ADH secretion
    * Genetic testing and your cancer risk
    * How to research cancer
    * How to tell your child that you have cancer
    * Hyperthermia for treating cancer
    * Lactate dehydrogenase test
    * Laser therapy for cancer
    * Lymphangiogram
    * Malignant teratoma
    * Peutz-Jeghers syndrome
    * Photodynamic therapy for cancer
    * Pleural fluid analysis
    * Protein electrophoresis - serum
    * Talking with a child about a parent's terminal illness
    * Targeted therapies for cancer
    * Targeted therapy: questions to ask your doctor
    * Tumor
    * Understanding cancer staging
    * Understanding your cancer prognosis
    * Upper airway biopsy
    * What if cancer comes back?
    * When your cancer treatment stops working
    * Your cancer care team
    * Your cancer diagnosis: Do you need a second opinion?

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

    * Cancer Alternative Therapies
    * Cancer Chemotherapy
    * Cancer Immunotherapy
    * Cancer--Living with Cancer
    * Radiation Therapy
    * Tumors and Pregnancy

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Cancer is the National Cancer
Institute

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Cancer_

## NIH MedlinePlus Magazine

    * Closer Look at Cancer Imaging Tools
    * Finding Better and More Personalized Ways to Diagnose Cancer at NIH
    * Translating Music into Hope: Black Eyed Peas' Taboo Talks About His Cancer Battle

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 2 April 2020 Topic last reviewed: 18 May 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

