Link: https://medlineplus.gov/pregnancyandmedicines.html    
                                Description: Not all medicines are safe to take when you are pregnant. Some medicines can harm your baby, including over-the-counter drugs, herbs and supplements.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Pregnancy and Medicines

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/pregnancyandmedicines.html

#  Pregnancy and Medicines

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Men

## Summary

Not all medicines are safe to take when you are pregnant. Some medicines can
harm your baby. That includes over-the-counter or prescription drugs, herbs,
and supplements.

Always speak with your health care provider before you start or stop any
medicine. Not using medicine that you need may be more harmful to you and your
baby than using the medicine. For example, many pregnant women take
prescription medicines for health problems like diabetes, asthma, seizures,
and heartburn. The decision about whether or not to take a medicine depends on
the risks and benefits. You and your health care provider should make this
choice together.

Pregnant women should not take regular vitamins. They may have too much or too
little of the vitamins that you need. There are special vitamins for pregnant
women. It is important to take 0.4 mg of folic acid every day before you
become pregnant through the first part of your pregnancy. Folic acid helps to
prevent birth defects of the baby's brain or spine.

Food and Drug Administration

## Start Here

    * Medicine and Pregnancy ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (Food and Drug Administration) Also in Spanish
    * Pregnancy and Medicines (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health)
    * Prescription Drugs, Over-the-Counter Drugs, Supplements and Herbal Products (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Treating for Two: Medicine and Pregnancy: Basics (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Echinacea Preparations and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * St. John's Wort (Hypericum Perforatum) and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Index to Drug-Specific Information (Food and Drug Administration)
    * Prescription Opioids during Pregnancy (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Registries Help Moms Measure Medication Risks (Food and Drug Administration) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Allergy Medications and Pregnancy: What's Safe? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Antibiotics and Pregnancy: What's Safe? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Antidepressants: Safe during Pregnancy? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Aspirin during Pregnancy: Is It Safe? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Asthma Medications and Pregnancy (National Jewish Health)
    * Benzodiazepines and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Bisphosphonate Treatment and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF
    * Bupropion (Wellbutrin) and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF
    * Carbamazepine (Tegretol) and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Ciprofloxacin and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Citalopram/Escitalopram (Celexa/Lexapro) and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF
    * Diethylstilbestrol (DES) and Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Diphenhydramine and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Docusate Sodium and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists)
    * Etanercept (Enbrel) and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Fluconazole and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF
    * Fluoxetine (Prozac) and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Ibuprofen and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Inhaled Corticosteroids (ICSs) and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Isotretinoin (Accutane) and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Isotretinoin and Other Retinoids During Pregnancy (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Lithium and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF
    * Loratadine and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Metformin and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Methotrexate and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Metronidazole (Flagyl) and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Miconazole/Clotrimazole and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF
    * Montelukast (Singulair) and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists)
    * New Recommendations for Mefloquine Use in Pregnancy (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Paroxetine (Paxil) and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF
    * Phentermine and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF
    * Prednisone/Prednisolone and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF
    * Pregnancy and Opioids: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Pregnancy Constipation: Are Stool Softeners Safe? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Pseudoephedrine, Phenylephrine and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF
    * Risk of oral clefts in children born to mothers taking Topamax (topiramate) Risk of Oral Clefts (Cleft Lip and/or Palate) in Infants Born to Mothers Taking Topamax (Topiramate) (Food and Drug Administration)
    * Sertraline (Zoloft) and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF
    * Sulfamethoxazole/Trimethoprim (Bactrim or Septra) and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF
    * Tetracycline and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF
    * Thalidomide and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF
    * Topical Acne Treatments and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Trazodone (Desyrel) and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF
    * Valproic Acid and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) Also in Spanish
    * Venlafaxine (Effexor) and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF
    * Women with Epilepsy: Drug Risks and Safety During Pregnancy (American Academy of Neurology) \- PDF

## Statistics and Research

    * How Much Do We Know about the Most Common Medicines Used during Pregnancy? (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Opioid Use and Neural Tube Defects (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Pregnancy Registries (Food and Drug Administration)
    * Treating for Two: Medicine and Pregnancy: Research (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Abnormalities, Drug-Induced ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Effect of Folic Acid and Zinc Supplementation in Men on Semen...
    * Article: Vitamin D: Its Deficiency and Effect of Supplementation on Maternal Outcome.
    * Article: Six-Year Follow-up of a Trial of Antenatal Vitamin D for Asthma...
    * Pregnancy and Medicines -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
    * Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
    * March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation Also in Spanish

## Men

    * Finasteride (Propecia/Proscar) and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF
    * Paternal Exposures and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Pregnancy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pregnancy.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## Related Health Topics

    * Birth Defects
    * Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders
    * Medicines
    * Preconception Care
    * Pregnancy and Drug Use
    * Pregnancy and Opioids
    * Reproductive Hazards

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Pregnancy and Medicines is the
Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human
Development

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Pregnancy and
Medicines_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 3 January 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

