Link: https://medlineplus.gov/visionimpairmentandblindness.html    
                                Description: Vision impairment (low vision) and blindness can have many causes. If you lose vision, you can&#39;t get it back. But there are ways to manage; learn how.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Vision Impairment and Blindness

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/visionimpairmentandblindness.html

#  Vision Impairment and Blindness

Also called: Low vision

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Symptoms
  * Diagnosis and Tests
  * Prevention and Risk Factors

### Learn More

  * Living With
  * Related Issues
  * Specifics
  * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

  * Images
  * Videos and Tutorials
  * Games

### Research

  * Statistics and Research
  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Reference Desk
  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Children
  * Teenagers
  * Older Adults
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

If you have low vision, eyeglasses, contact lenses, medicine, or surgery may
not help. Activities like reading, shopping, cooking, writing, and watching TV
may be hard to do. The leading causes of low vision and blindness in the
United States are age-related eye diseases: macular degeneration, cataract and
glaucoma. Other eye disorders, eye injuries, and birth defects can also cause
vision loss.

Whatever the cause, lost vision cannot be restored. It can, however, be
managed. A loss of vision means that you may have to reorganize your life and
learn new ways of doing things. If you have some vision, visual aids such as
special glasses and large print books can make life easier. There are also
devices to help those with no vision, like text-reading software and braille
books.

The sooner vision loss or eye disease is found and treated, the greater your
chances of keeping your remaining vision. You should have regular
comprehensive eye exams by an eye care professional.

NIH: National Eye Institute

## Start Here

  * Low Vision ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Eye Institute)

## Symptoms

  * Eye Symptoms (American Academy of Ophthalmology) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Dilating Eye Drops (American Association for Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus)
  * Eye Disease Simulations ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Eye Institute)

## Prevention and Risk Factors

  * Eye Exam (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
  * Keep Your Vision Healthy: Learn About Comprehensive Dilated Eye Exams ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish

## Living With

  * Assistive Devices: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Living with Low Vision (American Occupational Therapy Association) \- PDF
  * Low Vision Aids and Low Vision Rehabilitation (American Academy of Ophthalmology) Also in Spanish
  * What Is Low Vision? (American Foundation for the Blind)

## Related Issues

  * Abnormal Head Position (American Association for Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus)
  * Cell Phones, Tablets, and Other Mobile Technology for Users with Visual Impairments (American Foundation for the Blind)
  * Exercise for People with Low Vision ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging)
  * Solar Eclipse and Your Eyes (Prevent Blindness America)
  * Talking to Your Doctor ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Eye Institute) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

  * Overview on Deaf-Blindness (National Consortium on Deaf-Blindness)
  * Vision Loss, Sudden (Merck & Co., Inc.) Also in Spanish

## Genetics

  * Genetics Home Reference: AlstrÃ¶m syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: autosomal dominant congenital stationary night blindness ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: autosomal recessive congenital stationary night blindness ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: Boucher-NeuhÃ¤user syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: bradyopsia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: choroideremia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: fundus albipunctatus ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: Manitoba oculotrichoanal syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: mucolipidosis type IV ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: ocular albinism ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: ophthalmo-acromelic syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: osteoporosis-pseudoglioma syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: RAB18 deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: SOX2 anophthalmia syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: Wagner syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: X-linked congenital stationary night blindness ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Images

  * Patient Eye Examinations - Adults ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Eye Institute)

## Videos and Tutorials

  * Seeing ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Games

  * Braille Bug: Games (American Foundation for the Blind)

## Statistics and Research

  * 10 Tips to Reduce Your Chance of Losing Vision from the Most Common Cause of Blindness (American Academy of Ophthalmology)
  * All Vision Impairment ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Eye Institute)
  * Blindness ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Eye Institute)
  * Exercise and Drinking May Play a Role in Vision Impairment Risk (American Academy of Ophthalmology) Also in Spanish
  * Low Vision ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Eye Institute)

## Clinical Trials

  * Clinical Trials in Vision Research ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Eye Institute)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Blindness ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Vision Disorders ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Vision, Low ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: The role of lipocalin-2 in age-related macular degeneration (AMD).
  * Article: Senescence in the pathogenesis of age-related macular degeneration.
  * Article: Introduction to the multi-author review on macular degeneration.
  * Vision Impairment and Blindness -- see more articles
  * Blindness -- see more articles
  * Low vision -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

  * Anatomy of the Eye ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Eye Institute)
  * Diagram of the Eye ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Eye Institute) Also in Spanish

## Find an Expert

  * Find Services for People Who Are Blind or Visually Impaired (American Foundation for the Blind)
  * Finding an Eye Doctor ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Eye Institute) Also in Spanish
  * National Eye Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

  * About the Eye ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (National Eye Institute)
  * Blindness (Nemours Foundation)
  * Cortical Visual Impairment (American Association for Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus)
  * Early Interactions with Children Who Are Deaf-Blind (National Consortium on Deaf-Blindness) \- PDF
  * Kids' Quest: Vision Impairment (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Pediatric Low Vision (American Association for Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus)
  * Visual Impairment, Including Blindness (Center for Parent Information and Resources) Also in Spanish
  * What Is a Pediatric Ophthalmologist? (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish
  * Your Child's Vision (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
  * Your Eyes (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

  * Visual Impairment (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Older Adults

  * Your Aging Eyes: How You See as Time Goes By ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

  * Blindness and vision loss (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Home vision tests (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Living with vision loss (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Vision - night blindness (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Vision problems (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VisionImpairment3.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Blindness and vision loss
  * Home vision tests
  * Living with vision loss
  * Ophthalmoscopy
  * Seeing
  * Standard ophthalmic exam
  * Uveitis
  * Vision - night blindness
  * Vision problems
  * Visual acuity test

  * Visual field

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

  * Amblyopia
  * Assistive Devices
  * Cataract
  * Diabetic Eye Problems
  * Eye Care
  * Eye Diseases
  * Eye Injuries
  * Glaucoma
  * Macular Degeneration
  * Retinal Disorders

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Vision Impairment and Blindness
is the National Eye Institute

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 20 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 26 April 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

