

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Genomics & Precision Health

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Stroke Awareness

ï»¿

alert icon

Archived: This Page Is No Longer Being Updated

This web page is archived for historical purposes and is no longer being
maintained or updated.

Minus

Related Pages

![senior citizens in a
field](/genomics/update/file/images/spotlight/spot_stroke2.jpg)

Stroke is a leading cause of death and a major cause of disability in the
United States. A stroke occurs when the blood supply to part of the brain is
blocked, or when a blood vessel in the brain bursts, causing damage to a part
of the brain.Some health conditions and behavioral and lifestyle factors can
put individuals at a higher risk for stroke. Important risk factors include
high blood pressure, heart disease, diabetes, and cigarette smoking.

Individuals can help prevent a stroke by making behavioral and lifestyle
changes that lower their risk.

#### Genetics and family history

Genes play a role in the development of risk factors that can lead to a
stroke, such as high blood pressure, heart disease, diabetes, and vascular
conditions. An increased risk for stroke within a family may also be due to
common behavioral factors, such as a sedentary lifestyle or poor eating
habits. Thus, family health history is an important tool for identifying
people at increased risk for stroke because it reflects both an individual's
genes and shared environmental risk factors.

In a 2003 study in Utah, 86% of all early strokes occurred in just 11% of
families. This shows that a relatively small sub-set of families in the
population with history of stroke account for the majority of cases. These
families may benefit the most from screening and lifestyle interventions.1

Stroke also occurs as a complication of several genetic disorders, the most
common of these being sickle cell disease. Other genetic disorders such as
CADASIL (cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts
and leukoencephalopathy) have stroke as the primary feature, but these
disorders are quite rare. Research in inherited diseases that include stroke
is providing insights into how genes contribute to stroke risk with the goal
of developing new approaches for prediction, prevention, and treatment of the
disease.

#### Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Division for Heart Disease and Stroke Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stroke Prevention Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Signs and Symptoms of Stroke
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stroke Prevention tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stroke Risk Factors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * WISEWOMAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Family health history
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, NIHExternal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * American Stroke AssociationExternal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National Stroke AssociationExternal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Million HeartsExternal is a national initiative to prevent 1 million heart attacks and strokes by 2017

* * *

1Hunt, SC, Gwinn, M, Adams, TD. 2003. Family History Assessment, Strategies
for Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease. American Journal of Preventive
Medicine. 24(2):136-141.

Page last reviewed: January 31, 2013 (archived document)

Content source: Office of Science (OS), Office of Genomics and Precision
Public Health

home Genomics & Precision Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hot Topics of the Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Weekly Update
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * PHGKBplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About PHGKB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Reports and Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Genomics and Precision Health Blog
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Events and Multimedia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Genetics 101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Family Health History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Genetic Counseling and Testingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Genetic Counseling
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Genetic Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Evaluating Genomic Tests
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Genomics and Health Topicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Breast and Ovarian Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Colorectal Cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Heart Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hereditary Hemochromatosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Osteoporosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pharmacogenomics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Precision Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Real Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * My Family Health History Portrait
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * More Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Implementation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pathogen Genomics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Genomics Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Latest Tweets

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

