

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Influenza (Flu)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Variant Influenza Viruses: Background and CDC Risk Assessment and Reporting

EspaÃ±ol

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC Assessment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Reporting

### Background On Variant Influenza Viruses

Swine flu viruses do not normally infect humans. However, sporadic human
infections with influenza viruses that normally circulate in swine and not
people have occurred. When this happens, these viruses are called "variant
viruses." They also can be denoted by adding the letter "v" to the end of the
virus subtype designation. Human infections with H1N1v, H3N2v and H1N2v
viruses have been detected in the United States.

Most commonly, human infections with variant viruses occur in people with
exposure to infected pigs (e.g., children near pigs at a fair or workers in
the swine industry). This is thought to happen mainly when an infected pig
coughs or sneezes and droplets with influenza virus in them spread through the
air. If these droplets land in your nose or mouth, or are inhaled, you can be
infected. There also is some evidence that you might get infected by touching
something that has virus on it and then touching your own mouth or nose. A
third way to possibly get infected is to inhale particles containing influenza
virus. Scientists aren't really sure which of these ways of spread is the most
common. Swine influenza has not been shown to be transmissible to people
through eating properly handled and prepared pork (pig meat) or other products
derived from pigs.

There have been documented cases of multiple people becoming sick after
exposure to one or more infected pigs and also cases of limited spread of
variant influenza viruses from person-to-person. The vast majority of human
infections with variant influenza viruses do not result in person-to-person
spread. However, each case of human infection with a swine influenza virus
should be fully investigated to be sure that such viruses are not spreading in
an efficient and ongoing way in humans and to limit further exposure of humans
to infected animals if infected animals are identified.

Illness associated with variant virus infection has been mostly mild with
symptoms similar to those of seasonal flu. Like seasonal flu, however, serious
illness, resulting in hospitalization and death is possible. In 2012, for
example, of 309 human infections with H3N2v, 16 people were hospitalized and
one of these people died. Most of the people who were hospitalized and the
person who died had one or more health or age factor that put them at high
risk of serious flu-related complications. People at high risk of serious
complications from seasonal influenza and H3N2v include children younger than
5, people with certain chronic conditions like asthma, diabetes, heart
disease, weakened immune systems, pregnant women and people 65 years and
older. CDC has issued guidance for people attending fairs where swine might be
present, including additional precautions for people who are at high risk of
serious flu complications.

### CDC Assessment

Sporadic infections and even localized outbreaks among people with variant
influenza viruses may occur. All influenza viruses have the capacity to change
and it's possible that variant viruses may change such that they infect people
easily and spread easily from person-to-person. The Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention (CDC) continues to monitor closely for variant
influenza virus infections and will report cases of H3N2v and other variant
influenza viruses weekly in FluView and on the case count tables on this
website

### Reporting Variant Influenza Viruses

Domestically, CDC reports these cases in its weekly national influenza
surveillance report, FluView. CDC also is required to report all cases of
human infection with novel influenza viruses (which would include variant
viruses) to the World Health Organization (WHO)external icon as part of the
International Health Regulations (IHR)external icon. The IHR is an
international legal instrument entered into force in 2007 with the goal of
helping the international community prevent and respond to public health risks
with potential global impact. The IHR requires countries to report certain
disease outbreaks and public health events, including any confirmed case of
human infection with a "novel" (non-human) influenza virus.‬‬

The links below offer information about human infections with variant
influenza viruses.

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Key Facts about Human Infections with Variant Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Reported Infections with Variant Influenza Viruses in the United States since 2005
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Influenza A (H3N2) Variant Virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What People Who Raise Pigs Need To Know About Influenza (Flu)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Reports of Human Infections with Variant Viruses

### Resources

Print Materials

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Graphic: Flu Can Spread Between Pigs and People pdf icon[1.2 MB, 2 pages] | Spanish pdf icon[1.2 MB, 2 pages]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Key Facts for People Exhibiting Pigs at Fairs pdf icon[545 KB, 2 pages]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Take Action to Prevent the Spread of Flu Between People and Pigs pdf icon[1.3 MB, 2 pages]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Educational Poster pdf icon[389 KB, 1 page]external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Compendium of Measures to Prevent Disease Associated with Animals in Public Settings, 2013external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Reduce Your Risk (English) pdf icon[22 KB, 1 page]external icon | (Spanish) pdf icon[22 KB, 1 page]external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Measures to Minimize Influenza Transmission at Swine Exhibitions, 2018 - NASAHO and NASPHV pdf icon[97 KB, 8 pages]external icon

Videos / Podcast

Video Podcast: CDC Recommendations to Reduce the Risk of H3N2v Flu Virus
Infection for Fairgoers and Swine Exhibitors [5 MB, 5 min 51 sec]

Dr. Lyn Finelli discusses CDC's recommendations for reducing the risk of
infection with H3N2v flu viruses for fairgoers and swine exhibitors.

More Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Past Reports of Human Infections with Variant Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Medscape Commentary: CDC Guidance for Swine Influenza Virus Infectionexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Infectious Disease News: 'Common-Sense' precautions reduce risk for variant flu at fairsexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CSTE: Flu Education Among Youth in Agriculture Resource Repositoryexternal icon

Page last reviewed: September 12, 2016

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD)

home Swine Flu

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * In Swine (Pigs) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Key Facts about Swine Influenza (Swine Flu) in Pigs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Information for Pork Producers and People Who Work With or Raise Pigs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * What People Who Raise Pigs Need To Know About Influenza (Flu)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Workers Employed at Commercial Swine Farms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fair Organizers & Exhibitors expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Key Facts for People Exhibiting Pigs at Fairs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Issues for Fair Organizers to Consider When Planning Fairs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * In Humans expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Key Facts about Human Infections with Variant Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Background, Risk Assessment & Reporting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reported Infections with Variant Influenza Viruses in the United States expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Published Reports of Human Infections with Variant Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Past Outbreaks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Health Care and Laboratorian Guidance expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Interim Guidance for Clinicians on Human Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Specific Variant Flu Viruses expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * What is H3N2v
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Situation Summary expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Public Health Guidance on H3N2v
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * H3N2v Materials & Resources 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Supplemental Interim Guidance for School Administrators on H3N2v
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Info for Health Care Providers on H3N2v expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevention Strategies for Seasonal and Influenza A (H3N2)v in Health Care Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Interim Information for Clinicians about Human Infections with H3N2v Virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Interim Guidance for Enhanced Influenza Surveillance: Additional Specimen Collection for Detection of Influenza A (H3N2) Variant Virus Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Interim Guidance on Specimen Collection, Processing, and Testing for Patients with Suspect Influenza A (H3N2)v Virus Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Interim Guidance on Case Definitions to be Used For Investigations of Influenza A (H3N2)v Virus Cases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other Guidance Documents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What CDC Does expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Researching the Virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Public Health Youth Agriculture Education Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * News & Spotlights

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

![1918 Pandemic flu commemoration website.](/flu/images/pandemic-1918-flu.jpg)

Influenza Types

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Seasonal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Avian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Swine/Variant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Influenza in Animals

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

