

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Meningitis

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Viral Meningitis

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Causes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * People at Risk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * How it Spreads
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevention

Viral meningitis is the most common type of meningitis, an inflammation of the
lining of the brain and spinal cord. It is often less severe than bacterial
meningitis, and most people get better on their own (without treatment).
However, anyone with symptoms of meningitis should see a doctor right away
because some types of meningitis can be very serious. Only a doctor can
determine if someone has meningitis, what is causing it, and the best
treatment. Babies younger than 1 month old and people with weakened immune
systems are more likely to have severe illness from viral meningitis.

##  Causes

Non-polio enteroviruses are the most common cause of viral meningitis in the
United States, especially from late spring to fall. That is when these viruses
spread most often. However, only a small number of people infected with
enteroviruses will actually develop meningitis.

Other viruses that can cause meningitis are

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mumps virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Herpesviruses, including Epstein-Barr virus, herpes simplex viruses, and varicella-zoster virus (which causes chickenpox and shingles)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Measles virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Influenza virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Arboviruses, such as West Nile virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus

##  People at Risk

People of any age can get viral meningitis. However, some people have a higher
risk of getting the disease, including:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Children younger than 5 years old
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * People with weakened immune systems caused by diseases, medications (such as chemotherapy), and recent organ or bone marrow transplantations

Babies younger than 1 month old and people with weakened immune systems are
also more likely to have severe illness.

##  How it Spreads

Close contacts of someone with viral meningitis can become infected with the
virus that made that person sick. However, these close contacts are not likely
to develop meningitis. Only a small number of people who get infected with the
viruses that cause meningitis will actually develop viral meningitis.

Viruses that can cause meningitis spread in different ways. Learn more about
how the following viruses spread by visiting CDC's websites:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Non-polio enteroviruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mumps virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Herpesviruses, including Epstein-Barr virus, herpes simplex viruses, and varicella-zoster virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Measles virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Influenza virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Arboviruses, like West Nile virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus

 Top of Page

##  Symptoms

### Common symptoms in babies

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fever
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Irritability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Poor eating
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sleepiness or trouble waking up from sleep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lethargy (a lack of energy)

### Common symptoms in children and adults

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fever
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Headache
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Stiff neck
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Eyes being more sensitive to light
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sleepiness or trouble waking up from sleep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nausea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Irritability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Vomiting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lack of appetite
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lethargy (a lack of energy)

Most people with mild viral meningitis usually get better on their own within
7 to 10 days.

Initial symptoms of viral meningitis are similar to those for bacterial
meningitis. However, bacterial meningitis is usually severe and can cause
serious complications, such as brain damage, hearing loss, or learning
disabilities. The pathogens (germs) that cause bacterial meningitis can also
be associated with another serious illness, sepsis. Sepsis is the body's
extreme response to infection. Without timely treatment, sepsis can quickly
lead to tissue damage, organ failure, and death.

See a doctor right away if you think you or your child might have meningitis.
A doctor can determine if you have the disease, what is causing it, and the
best treatment.

 Top of Page

##  Diagnosis

Doctors diagnose meningitis by ordering specific lab tests on specimens from a
person suspected of having meningitis. If a doctor suspects meningitis, he or
she may collect samples for testing by:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Swabbing your nose or throat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Obtaining a stool sample
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Taking some blood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drawing fluid from around your spinal cord

##  Treatment

In most cases, there is no specific treatment for viral meningitis. Most
people who get mild viral meningitis usually recover completely in 7 to 10
days without treatment. Antiviral medicine may help people with meningitis
caused by viruses such as herpesvirus and influenza.

Antibiotics do not help viral infections, so they are not useful in the
treatment of viral meningitis. However, antibiotics do fight bacteria, so they
are very important when treating bacterial meningitis.

People who develop severe illness, or are at risk for developing severe
illness may need care in a hospital.

##  Prevention

There are no vaccines to protect against non-polio enteroviruses, which are
the most common cause of viral meningitis.  The best way to help protect
yourself and others from non-polio enterovirus infections is to

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially after changing diapers or using the toilet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Avoid close contact, such as touching and shaking hands, with people who are sick
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Stay home when you are sick and keep sick children out of school

Vaccines can protect against some diseases, such as measles, mumps,
chickenpox, and influenza, which can lead to viral meningitis. Make sure you
and your child are vaccinated on schedule.

Avoid bites from mosquitoes and other insects that carry diseases that can
infect humans.

Control mice and rats. If you have a rodent in or around your home, follow
appropriate cleaning and control precautions.

 Top of Page

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mumps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Measles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MMR Vaccine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Epstein-Barr Virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Chickenpox
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Chickenpox Vaccine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Shingles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Shingles Vaccine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Enteroviruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Influenza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Influenza Vaccine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Arboviruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lymphocytic Choriomeningitis Virus

Page last reviewed: August 6, 2019

Content source: National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases

home Meningitis Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Bacterial Meningitis expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Laboratory Methods for the Diagnosis of Meningitis expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Disclosure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Authors/Acknowledgements
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chapter 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chapter 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chapter 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chapter 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chapter 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chapter 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chapter 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chapter 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chapter 10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chapter 11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chapter 12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chapter 13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chapter 14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Annex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Viral Meningitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fungal Meningitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Parasitic Meningitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Amebic Meningitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Non-infectious Meningitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Resources for Healthcare Professionals

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Vaccine Schedules
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preteen & Teen Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Meningococcal Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sepsis

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

