Link: https://medlineplus.gov/heartattack.html    
                                Description: Over a million people in the U.S. have a heart attack each year. Learn the symptoms and get help quickly to prevent permanent heart damage and death.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Heart Attack

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/heartattack.html

#  Heart Attack

Also called: MI, Myocardial infarction

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Symptoms
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Health Check Tools

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Women
    * Older Adults
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Each year almost 800,000 Americans have a heart attack. A heart attack happens
when blood flow to the heart suddenly becomes blocked. Without the blood
coming in, the heart can't get oxygen. If not treated quickly, the heart
muscle begins to die. But if you do get quick treatment, you may be able to
prevent or limit damage to the heart muscle. That's why it's important to know
the symptoms of a heart attack and call 911 if you or someone else is having
them. You should call, even if you are not sure that it is a heart attack.

The most common symptoms in men and women are

    * **Chest discomfort.** It is often in center or left side of the chest. It usually lasts more than a few minutes. It may go away and come back. It can feel like pressure, squeezing, fullness, or pain. It also can feel like heartburn or indigestion.
    * **Shortness of breath.** Sometimes this is your only symptom. You may get it before or during the chest discomfort. It can happen when you are resting or doing a little bit of physical activity.
    * **Discomfort in the upper body.** You may feel pain or discomfort in one or both arms, the back, shoulders, neck, jaw, or upper part of the stomach.

You may also have other symptoms, such as nausea, vomiting, dizziness, and
lightheadedness. You may break out in a cold sweat. Sometimes women will have
different symptoms then men. For example, they are more likely to feel tired
for no reason.

The most common cause of heart attacks is coronary artery disease (CAD). With
CAD, there is a buildup of cholesterol and other material, called plaque, on
their inner walls or the arteries. This is atherosclerosis. It can build up
for years. Eventually an area of plaque can rupture (break open). A blood clot
can form around the plaque and block the artery.

A less common cause of heart attack is a severe spasm (tightening) of a
coronary artery. The spasm cuts off blood flow through the artery.

At the hospital, health care providers make a diagnosis based on your
symptoms, blood tests, and different heart health tests. Treatments may
include medicines and medical procedures such as coronary angioplasty. After a
heart attack, cardiac rehabilitation and lifestyle changes can help you
recover.

NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Start Here

    * About Heart Attacks (American Heart Association)
    * Don't Take a Chance with a Heart Attack: Know the Facts and Act Fast ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Heart Attack (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Heart Attack (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * What Is a Heart Attack? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute) Also in Spanish

## Symptoms

    * Can You Recognize a Heart Attack or Stroke? What To Do When Every Moment Counts ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * CK-MB Test (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
    * Creatine Kinase ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Heart Health Tests: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * hs-CRP Test (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
    * Lactate Dehydrogenase (LDH) Isoenzymes Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Lactate Dehydrogenase (LDH) Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Myoglobin Test (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
    * Troponin Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Warning Signs of Heart Attack, Stroke and Cardiac Arrest (American Heart Association)

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Aspirin for Reducing Your Risk of Heart Attack and Stroke: Know the Facts (Food and Drug Administration)
    * Can Vitamins Help Prevent a Heart Attack? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * How to Prevent Heart Disease: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Lifestyle Changes for Heart Attack Prevention (American Heart Association)
    * Talk with Your Doctor about Taking Aspirin to Prevent Disease ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotion) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Angioplasty: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Blood Thinners: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Living With

    * Cardiac Rehabilitation: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Heart Attack Recovery FAQs (American Heart Association)
    * How Will I Recover from My Heart Attack? ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (American Heart Association) \- PDF
    * When You Visit Your Doctor: After a Heart Attack (Harvard Medical School)

## Related Issues

    * Depression After Heart Attack (American Heart Association)
    * Dressler's Syndrome (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Drug-Eluting Stents: Do They Increase Heart Attack Risk? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Heart Attack or Sudden Cardiac Arrest: How Are They Different? (American Heart Association)

## Specifics

    * Acute Coronary Syndrome (American Heart Association)
    * Coronary Artery Dissection: Not Just a Heart Attack (American Heart Association)
    * Silent Heart Attack: What Are the Risks? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * What Is Cardiogenic Shock? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Health Check Tools

    * Can You Recognize a Heart Attack? Quiz (American Heart Association)

## Statistics and Research

    * Heart Disease and Stroke Statistics (American Heart Association)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Myocardial Infarction ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Takotsubo syndrome.
    * Article: Acute Myocardial Infarction in Young Individuals.
    * Article: Role of oxidative stress-related biomarkers in heart failure: galectin 3, Î±1-antitrypsin...
    * Heart Attack -- see more articles
    * Heart attack prevention -- see more articles
    * Heart attack rehabilitation -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Heart Anatomy (Texas Heart Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Heart and Stroke Encyclopedia (American Heart Association)
    * Heart Information Center (Texas Heart Institute) Also in Spanish
    * How the Heart Works ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Find an Expert

    * American Heart Association
    * Find a course (American Heart Association)
    * National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Women

    * Calcium Supplements: A Risk Factor for Heart Attack? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Heart Attack and Women (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health) Also in Spanish
    * Heart Attack Symptoms in Women (American Heart Association)
    * Make the call, don't miss a beat: Heart Attack Information for Women (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health)
    * Panic Attack or Heart Attack? (Women's Heart Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Older Adults

    * Heart Attack Coronary Artery Disease (American Geriatrics Society)

## Patient Handouts

    * Being active after your heart attack (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Cardiac catheterization - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Heart attack (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Heart attack - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Learn What a Heart Attack Feels Like--It Could Save Your Life ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute) \- PDF
    * Troponin test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Heart Attack](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartAttack.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Acute coronary syndrome
    * Apolipoprotein B100
    * Apolipoprotein CII
    * Being active after your heart attack
    * Cardiogenic shock
    * CPK isoenzymes test
    * Creatine phosphokinase test
    * Heart attack
    * Heart attack - discharge
    * Heart attack - what to ask your doctor
    * Heart attack first aid
    * Heart disease and intimacy
    * Lactate dehydrogenase test
    * LDH isoenzyme blood test
    * Lipoprotein-a
    * Myoglobin blood test
    * Myoglobin urine test
    * Pericarditis - after heart attack
    * Thrombolytic drugs for heart attack
    * Thrombolytic therapy
    * Troponin test

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

    * Angina
    * Cardiac Rehabilitation
    * Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery
    * Coronary Artery Disease
    * Heart Diseases
    * Heart Health Tests

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Heart Attack is the National
Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Heart Attack_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 13 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 25 August 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

