

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Fungal Diseases

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Valley Fever (Coccidioidomycosis)

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

Continuing medical education about Valley fever (coccidioidomycosis) for
healthcare providers is available through CDC.

Valley fever, also called coccidioidomycosis, is an infection caused by the
fungus _Coccidioides_. The fungus is known to live in the soil in the
southwestern United States and parts of Mexico and Central and South America.
The fungus was also recently found in south-central Washington. People can get
Valley fever by breathing in the microscopic fungal spores from the air,
although most people who breathe in the spores don't get sick. Usually, people
who get sick with Valley fever will get better on their own within weeks to
months, but some people will need antifungal medication. Certain groups of
people are at higher risk for becoming severely ill. It's difficult to prevent
exposure to _Coccidioides_ in areas where it's common in the environment, but
people who are at higher risk for severe Valley fever should try to avoid
breathing in large amounts of dust if they're in these areas.

For other fungal topics, visit the fungal diseases homepage.

![Arthroconidia of Coccidioides
immitis](/fungal/diseases/coccidioidomycosis/spanish/images/cocci-
definition.jpg)

About

![Phoenix dust
storm](/fungal/diseases/coccidioidomycosis/spanish/images/cocci-sources-
infection.jpg)

Sources of Infection

![Group of doctors](/fungal/diseases/coccidioidomycosis/spanish/images/cocci-
health-professionals.jpg)

Health Professionals

![Sick man holding a
handkerchief](/fungal/diseases/coccidioidomycosis/spanish/images/cocci-
symptoms.jpg)

Symptoms

![Woman doctor and
patient](/fungal/diseases/coccidioidomycosis/spanish/images/cocci-diagnosis-
testing.jpg)

Diagnosis & Testing

![Number of reported coccidioidomycosis
cases,1998-2015](/fungal/images/coccidio-cases-2015-small.jpg)

Statistics

![large group photo of diverse people](/fungal/images/cocci-risk-
prevention.jpg)

Risk & Prevention

![Man pouring pills in his
hand](/fungal/diseases/coccidioidomycosis/spanish/images/cocci-treatment-
outcomes.jpg)

Treatment & Outcomes

![a woman and a puppy in front of a laptop computer](/fungal/images/home-
buttons/woman-puppy.jpg)

More Resources

Page last reviewed: January 2, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Foodborne,
Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases (DFWED)

home Fungal Diseases

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Fungal Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Types of Fungal Diseasesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Aspergillosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * People at Risk & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Diagnosis & Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Healthcare Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Azole-resistant _Aspergillus_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * More Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * en espaÃ±olplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DefiniciÃ³n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * SÃ­ntomas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Riesgo y prevenciÃ³n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fuentes 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DiagnÃ³stico y pruebas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tratamiento
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Profesionales de la salud 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * EstadÃ­sticas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Blastomycosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Risk & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Diagnosis & Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment & Outcomes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * More Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Candidiasisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Candida_ infections of the mouth, throat, and esophagus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaginal candidiasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Invasive candidiasisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Risk & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Healthcare Professionals 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * More Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Candida auris_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Coccidioidomycosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * People at Risk & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Diagnosis & Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment & Outcomes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Health Professionalsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Valley Fever: Timely Diagnosis, Early Assessment, and Proper Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * More Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Mission and Community Service Groups: Be Aware of Valley Fever
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * en espaÃ±olplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DefiniciÃ³n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * SÃ­ntomas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Las Personas en Riesgo y PrevenciÃ³n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fuentes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DiagnÃ³stico y ExÃ¡menes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tratamiento y Resultados
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Profesionales de la Salud
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * EstadÃ­sticas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _C. neoformans_ Infectionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * People at Risk & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Diagnosis & Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment & Outcomes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * More Resources 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _C. gattii_ Infectionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * People at Risk & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Diagnosis & Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment & Outcomes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * More Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fungal Eye Infectionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * People at Risk & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Diagnosis & Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment & Outcomes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * More Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fungal Nail Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Histoplasmosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * People at Risk & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Diagnosis & Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment & Outcomes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * More Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mucormycosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * People at Risk & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Diagnosis & Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * More Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mycetomaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Information for Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Pneumocystis_ pneumonia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ringwormplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * People at Risk & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Diagnosis & Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment & Outcomes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Use of Steroid Creams
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * More Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sporotrichosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Sporothrix brasiliensis_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other Fungal Diseasesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Paracoccidioidomycosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Talaromycosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Who Gets Fungal Infections?plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * People living with HIV/AIDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Organ Transplant Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cancer Patients 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hospitalized Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stem Cell Transplant Patients 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Medications that Weaken Your Immune System
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Outbreaksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * For Public Health and Healthcare Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Whole Genome Sequencing and Fungal Disease Outbreaks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC at Workplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Burden of Fungal Diseases in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Global Fungal Diseasesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cryptococcal Meningitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Histoplasmosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Antifungal Resistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Think Fungus: Fungal Disease Awareness Weekplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social Media Messages
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fungal Disease Personal Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Terriâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mauricioâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Dawnâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sabineâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Heidiâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Kevinâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Kenâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Educational Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources for Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Laboratory Submission Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reportable Fungal Diseases by State
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Features
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Isolate submission opportunity: Monitoring for Azole Resistance in _Aspergillus fumigatus_

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fungal Meningitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Division of Foodborne, Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mycotic Diseases Branch

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

