

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Fungal Diseases

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Vaginal Candidiasis

Minus

Related Pages

### About

Candidiasis is an infection caused by a yeast (a type of fungus) called
_Candida_. _Candida_ normally lives inside the body (in places such as the
mouth, throat, gut, and vagina) and on skin without causing any problems.
Sometimes _Candida_ can multiply and cause an infection if the environment
inside the vagina changes in a way that encourages its growth. Candidiasis in
the vagina is commonly called a "vaginal yeast infection." Other names for
this infection are "vaginal candidiasis," "vulvovaginal candidiasis," or
"candidal vaginitis."

### Symptoms

The symptoms of vaginal candidiasis include:1,2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Vaginal itching or soreness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pain during sexual intercourse
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pain or discomfort when urinating
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Abnormal vaginal discharge

Although most vaginal candidiasis is mild, some women can develop severe
infections involving redness, swelling, and cracks in the wall of the vagina.

Contact your healthcare provider if you have any of these symptoms. These
symptoms are similar to those of other types of vaginal infections, which are
treated with different types of medicines. A healthcare provider can tell you
if you have vaginal candidiasis and how to treat it.

### Risk & Prevention

##### Who gets vaginal candidiasis?

Vaginal candidiasis is common, though more research is needed to understand
how many women are affected. Women who are more likely to get vaginal
candidiasis include those who:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Are pregnant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Use hormonal contraceptives (for example, birth control pills)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Have diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Have a weakened immune system (for example, due to HIV infection or medicines that weaken the immune system, such as steroids and chemotherapy)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Are taking or have recently taken antibiotics

#### ** ** How can I prevent vaginal candidiasis?

Wearing cotton underwear might help reduce the chances of getting a yeast
infection.2 Because taking antibiotics can lead to vaginal candidiasis, take
these medicines only when prescribed and exactly as your healthcare provider
tells you. Learn more about when antibiotics work and when they should be
avoided.

### Sources

Scientists estimate that about 20% of women normally have _Candida_ in the
vagina without having any symptoms.2 Sometimes, _Candida_ can multiply and
cause an infection if the environment inside the vagina changes in a way that
encourages its growth. This can happen because of hormones, medicines, or
changes in the immune system.

### Diagnosis & Testing

Healthcare providers usually diagnose vaginal candidiasis by taking a small
sample of vaginal discharge to be examined under a microscope in the medical
office or sent to a laboratory for a fungal culture. However, a positive
fungal culture does not always mean that _Candida_ is causing symptoms because
some women can have _Candida_ in the vagina without having any symptoms.

### Treatment

Vaginal candidiasis is usually treated with antifungal medicine.3 For most
infections, the treatment is an antifungal medicine applied inside the vagina
or a single dose of fluconazole taken by mouth. Other treatments may be needed
for infections that are more severe, that don't get better, or that keep
coming back after getting better. These treatments include more doses of
fluconazole taken by mouth or other medicines applied inside the vagina, such
as boric acid, nystatin, or flucytosine.

If you are a healthcare provider, please refer to:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Infectious Diseases Society of America's Clinical Practice Guidelines for the Management of Candidiasisexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC's 2015 Sexually Transmitted Diseases Treatment Guidelines: Vulvovaginal Candidiasis

### Statistics

Vaginal candidiasis is common. In the United States, it is the second most
common type of vaginal infection after bacterial vaginal infections.2 An
estimated 1.4 million outpatient visits for vaginal candidiasis occur annually
in the United States.4 The number of vaginal candidiasis cases in the United
States is unknown.

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC - 2015 Sexually Transmitted Diseases Treatment Guidelines: Vulvovaginal Candidiasis

References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. Gonçalves B, Ferreira C, Alves CT, Henriques M, Azeredo J, Silva S. Vulvovaginal candidiasis: epidemiology, microbiology and risk factorsexternal icon. Criti Rev Microbiol 2016;42:905-27.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2. Sobel JD. Vulvovaginal candidosisexternal icon. Lancet 2007;369:1961-71.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3. Pappas PG, Kauffman CA, Andes DR, Clark CJ, Marr KA, Ostrosky-Zeichner L, et al. Clinical practice guideline for the management of candidiasis: 2016 update by the Infectious Diseases Society of Americaexternal icon. Clin Infect Dis 2016;62:e1-50.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4. Benedict K, Jackson BR, Chiller T, Beer KD. Estimation of direct healthcare costs of fungal diseases in the United Statesexternal icon. Clin Infect Dis. 2018 Sep 10.

Top of Page

Page last reviewed: December 17, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Foodborne,
Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases (DFWED)

home Fungal Diseases

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Fungal Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Types of Fungal Diseasesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Aspergillosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * People at Risk & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Diagnosis & Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Healthcare Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Azole-resistant _Aspergillus_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * More Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * en espaÃ±olplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DefiniciÃ³n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * SÃ­ntomas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Riesgo y prevenciÃ³n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fuentes 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DiagnÃ³stico y pruebas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tratamiento
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Profesionales de la salud 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * EstadÃ­sticas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Blastomycosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Risk & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Diagnosis & Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment & Outcomes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * More Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Candidiasisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Candida_ infections of the mouth, throat, and esophagus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaginal candidiasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Invasive candidiasisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Risk & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Healthcare Professionals 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * More Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Candida auris_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Coccidioidomycosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * People at Risk & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Diagnosis & Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment & Outcomes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Health Professionalsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Valley Fever: Timely Diagnosis, Early Assessment, and Proper Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * More Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Mission and Community Service Groups: Be Aware of Valley Fever
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * en espaÃ±olplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DefiniciÃ³n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * SÃ­ntomas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Las Personas en Riesgo y PrevenciÃ³n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fuentes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * DiagnÃ³stico y ExÃ¡menes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tratamiento y Resultados
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Profesionales de la Salud
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * EstadÃ­sticas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _C. neoformans_ Infectionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * People at Risk & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Diagnosis & Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment & Outcomes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * More Resources 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _C. gattii_ Infectionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * People at Risk & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Diagnosis & Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment & Outcomes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * More Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fungal Eye Infectionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * People at Risk & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Diagnosis & Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment & Outcomes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * More Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fungal Nail Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Histoplasmosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * People at Risk & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Diagnosis & Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment & Outcomes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * More Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mucormycosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * People at Risk & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Diagnosis & Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * More Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mycetomaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Information for Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Pneumocystis_ pneumonia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ringwormplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * People at Risk & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Diagnosis & Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment & Outcomes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Use of Steroid Creams
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * More Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sporotrichosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Sporothrix brasiliensis_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other Fungal Diseasesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Paracoccidioidomycosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Talaromycosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Who Gets Fungal Infections?plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * People living with HIV/AIDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Organ Transplant Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cancer Patients 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hospitalized Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stem Cell Transplant Patients 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Medications that Weaken Your Immune System
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Outbreaksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * For Public Health and Healthcare Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Whole Genome Sequencing and Fungal Disease Outbreaks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC at Workplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Burden of Fungal Diseases in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Global Fungal Diseasesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cryptococcal Meningitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Histoplasmosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Antifungal Resistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Think Fungus: Fungal Disease Awareness Weekplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social Media Messages
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fungal Disease Personal Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Terriâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mauricioâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Dawnâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sabineâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Heidiâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Kevinâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Kenâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Educational Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources for Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Laboratory Submission Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reportable Fungal Diseases by State
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Features
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Isolate submission opportunity: Monitoring for Azole Resistance in _Aspergillus fumigatus_

Social_govd govD  Get Email Updates

Enter your email to get updates on _C. auris_

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fungal Meningitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Division of Foodborne, Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mycotic Diseases Branch

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

