

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Alkhurma Hemorrhagic Fever (AHF)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Alkhurma Hemorrhagic Fever (AHF)

Minus

Related Pages

Alkhurma hemorrhagic fever (AHF) is caused by Alkhurma hemorrhagic fever virus
(AHFV), a tick-borne virus of the Flavivirus family. The virus was initially
isolated in 1995 from a patient in Saudi Arabia. Subsequent cases of AHF have
been documented in tourists in Egypt, extending the geographic range of the
virus and suggesting that geographic distribution of the virus is wide and
that infections due to AHFV are underreported.

The persistence of the virus within tick populations, and the role of
livestock in the disease transmission process, are not well understood. The
AHFV virus is a variant of Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD), a tick-borne
Flavivirus found in Karnataka State and environs in India.

Since the first description of AHFV, several hundred cases of AHF have been
reported. Cases appear to peak in spring and summer. Further study of AHFV is
needed to improve public health measures.

![Two camels](/vhf/alkhurma/images/camels-small.jpg)

Transmission

People can become infected through a tick bite or when crushing infected
ticks...

Signs and Symptoms

Symptoms may appear as early as 2-4 days after exposure...

Risk of Exposure

Contact with livestock with tick exposure are risk factors for humans, as is
contact with infected ticks...

Diagnosis

Diagnosis could be difficult due to similarities between AHF, Crimean-Congo
Hemorrhagic fever (CCHF)...

Treatment

There is no standard specific treatment. Patients receive supportive
therapy...

Prevention

Avoid tick-infested areas and limit contact with livestock and domestic
animals...

![Alkhurma HF Outbreak distribution map](/vhf/alkhurma/images/distribution-
map.jpg)

Outbreak Distribution Map

Resources

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Factsheet: Alkhurma Hemorrhagic Fever (AHF) Cdc-pdf[2 pages]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Viral Hemorrhagic Fever (VHF) Information for Specific Groups
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * References

More

Page last reviewed: January 24, 2014

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of High-
Consequence Pathogens and Pathology (DHCPP), Viral Special Pathogens Branch
(VSPB)

home Alkhurma Hemorrhagic Fever (AHF)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Risk of Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Outbreak Distribution Map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Resources

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

