Link: https://medlineplus.gov/mammography.html    
                                Description: A mammography exam (mammogram) is an x-ray of the breast and is used to detect breast diseases like cancer. Find out how it works and what to expect.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Mammography

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/mammography.html

#  Mammography

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

A mammogram is an x-ray picture of the breast. It can be used to check for
breast cancer in women who have no signs or symptoms of the disease. It can
also be used if you have a lump or other sign of breast cancer.

Screening mammography is the type of mammogram that checks you when you have
no symptoms. It can help reduce the number of deaths from breast cancer among
women ages 40 to 70. But it can also have drawbacks. Mammograms can sometimes
find something that looks abnormal but isn't cancer. This leads to further
testing and can cause you anxiety. Sometimes mammograms can miss cancer when
it is there. It also exposes you to radiation. You should talk to your doctor
about the benefits and drawbacks of mammograms. Together, you can decide when
to start and how often to have a mammogram.

Mammograms are also recommended for younger women who have symptoms of breast
cancer or who have a high risk of the disease.

When you have a mammogram, you stand in front of an x-ray machine. The person
who takes the x-rays places your breast between two plastic plates. The plates
press your breast and make it flat. This may be uncomfortable, but it helps
get a clear picture. You should get a written report of your mammogram results
within 30 days.

NIH: National Cancer Institute

## Start Here

    * Mammograms ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Mammograms (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health) Also in Spanish
    * Mammography (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America)
    * What Is a Mammogram and When Should I Get One? (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Mammography and Other Screening Tests for Breast Problems (American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists) \- PDF

## Related Issues

    * Accuracy of Mammograms (Susan G. Komen for the Cure)
    * Dense Breasts (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * Dense Breasts: Answers to Commonly Asked Questions ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Mammography for Women with Breast Implants (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * Mammography: What You Need to Know (Food and Drug Administration) Also in Spanish
    * Nipple Aspirate Test Is Not An Alternative To Mammography (Food and Drug Administration) Also in Spanish
    * Thermogram No Substitute for Mammogram (Food and Drug Administration) Also in Spanish
    * What Does the Doctor Look for on a Mammogram? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Breast Tomosynthesis (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * Frequently Asked Questions about Digital Mammography (Food and Drug Administration)
    * Galactography (Ductography) (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * Scintimammography (Breast Specific Gamma Imaging-BSGI) (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish

## Statistics and Research

    * Experimental and Other Breast Imaging Methods (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * FastStats: Mammography/Breast Cancer (National Center for Health Statistics)
    * MQSA National Statistics (Food and Drug Administration)
    * Women with Disabilities and Breast Cancer Screening (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Mammography ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Comparison of Abbreviated Breast MRI vs Digital Breast Tomosynthesis for Breast...
    * Article: Comparison of Abbreviated Breast MRI vs Digital Breast Tomosynthesis for Breast...
    * Article: Artificial Intelligence Improves Breast Cancer Screening in Study.
    * Mammography -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * American Cancer Society
    * Mammography Facilities (Food and Drug Administration)
    * National Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program (NBCCEDP): Find a Screening Provider Near You (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * National Cancer Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Mammogram - calcifications (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Mammograms (Food and Drug Administration) \- PDF
    * Mammography (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Mammography](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Mammography.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Breast cancer screenings
    * Mammogram - calcifications
    * Mammography

## Related Health Topics

    * Breast Cancer
    * Breast Diseases

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Mammography is the National
Cancer Institute

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Mammography_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 15 January 2020 Topic last reviewed: 22 October 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

