Link: https://medlineplus.gov/thyroidtests.html    
                                Description: The thyroid is a gland in your neck that makes hormones. Read about blood and imaging tests that doctors use to diagnose and monitor thyroid diseases.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Thyroid Tests

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/thyroidtests.html

#  Thyroid Tests

Also called: Thyroid panel

## Summary

Your thyroid is a butterfly-shaped gland in your neck, just above your
collarbone. It is one of your endocrine glands, which make hormones. Thyroid
hormones control the rate of many activities in your body. They include how
fast you burn calories and how fast your heart beats. Thyroid tests check how
well your thyroid is working. They are also used to diagnose and help find the
cause of thyroid diseases such as hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism. Thyroid
tests include blood tests and imaging tests.

Blood tests for your thyroid include

    * TSH - measures thyroid-stimulating hormone. It is the most accurate measure of thyroid activity.
    * T3 and T4 - measure different thyroid hormones.
    * TSI - measures thyroid-stimulating immunoglobulin.
    * Antithyroid antibody test - measures antibodies (markers in the blood).

Imaging tests include CT scans, ultrasound, and nuclear medicine tests. One
type of nuclear medicine test is the thyroid scan. It uses small amounts of
radioactive material to create a picture of the thyroid, showing its size,
shape, and position. It can help find the cause of hyperthyroidism and check
for thyroid nodules (lumps in the thyroid). Another nuclear test is the
radioactive iodine uptake test, or thyroid uptake test. It checks how well
your thyroid is working and can help find the cause of hyperthyroidism.

NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Learn More

    * Calcitonin Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Thyroid Antibodies ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Thyroid Diseases Tests (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
    * Thyroid Function Tests (American Thyroid Association) Also in Spanish
    * Thyroid Scan and Uptake ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * Thyroid Tests (Nemours Foundation)
    * Thyroid Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
    * Thyroxine (T4) Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Triiodothyronine (T3) Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * TSH (Thyroid-stimulating hormone) test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Ultrasound of the Thyroid Gland (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Thyroid Function Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Assessment of biotin interference in thyroid function tests.
    * Article: Thyroid disease assessment and management: summary of NICE guidance.
    * Article: Thyroid-stimulating hormone is associated with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis in patients with chronic...
    * Thyroid Tests -- see more articles

## Patient Handouts

    * Antithyroglobulin antibody (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Antithyroid microsomal antibody (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Fine needle aspiration of the thyroid (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Radioactive iodine uptake (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * T3 test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * T3RU test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * T4 test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * TBG - blood test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Thyroid scan (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Thyroid ultrasound (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * TSH test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * TSI (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Thyroid Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThyroidTests.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Thyroid Tests is the National
Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Thyroid Tests_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 February 2020 Topic last reviewed: 6 July 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

