Link: https://medlineplus.gov/acutebronchitis.html    
                                Description: Bronchitis is an inflammation of the airways that carry air to your lungs. Learn about acute bronchitis symptoms, causes, and treatment    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Acute Bronchitis

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/acutebronchitis.html

#  Acute Bronchitis

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Diagnosis and Tests
  * Prevention and Risk Factors
  * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

  * Related Issues

### See, Play and Learn

  * No links available

### Research

  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Reference Desk
  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Children
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Bronchitis is an inflammation of the bronchial tubes, the airways that carry
air to your lungs. It causes a cough that often brings up mucus. It can also
cause shortness of breath, wheezing, a low fever, and chest tightness. There
are two main types of bronchitis: acute and chronic.

Most cases of acute bronchitis get better within several days. But your cough
can last for several weeks after the infection is gone.

The same viruses that cause colds and the flu often cause acute bronchitis.
These viruses spread through the air when people cough, or though physical
contact (for example, on unwashed hands). Being exposed to tobacco smoke, air
pollution, dusts, vapors, and fumes can also cause acute bronchitis. Less
often, bacteria can also cause acute bronchitis.

To diagnose acute bronchitis, your health care provider will ask about your
symptoms and listen to your breathing. You may also have other tests.

Treatments include rest, fluids, and aspirin (for adults) or acetaminophen to
treat fever. A humidifier or steam can also help. You may need inhaled
medicine to open your airways if you are wheezing. Antibiotics won't help if
the cause is viral. You may get antibiotics if the cause is bacterial.

NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Start Here

  * Acute Bronchitis (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
  * Acute Bronchitis (American Lung Association)
  * Bronchitis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute) Also in Spanish
  * Get Smart: Know When Antibiotics Work - Bronchitis (Chest Cold) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Blood Oxygen Level ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Chest X-Ray ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

  * Is Acute Bronchitis Contagious? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

  * Bronchitis Symptoms, Diagnosis, and Treatment (American Lung Association)

## Related Issues

  * Cough Culprits: What's the Difference Between Bronchitis and Pneumonia? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
  * Humidifiers: Air Moisture Eases Skin, Breathing Symptoms (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Bronchiolitis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Bronchitis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: A systematic review protocol of Tuina for children with acute bronchitis:...
  * Article: Points & Pearls: Acute bronchiolitis: assessment and management in the emergency...
  * Article: Serum Na+ Level in Children Suffering from Acute Bronchiolitis: A Review.
  * Acute Bronchitis -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

  * Bronchi, Bronchial Tree, & Lungs ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
  * How the Lungs Work ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Find an Expert

  * American Lung Association
  * National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

  * Bronchitis (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)

## Patient Handouts

  * Bronchitis - acute (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Postural drainage (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Routine sputum culture (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Acute Bronchitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AcuteBronchitis.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Blood gases
  * Bronchiolitis
  * Bronchitis - acute
  * Chest x-ray
  * Industrial bronchitis
  * Oxygen safety
  * Postural drainage
  * Routine sputum culture

## Related Health Topics

  * Common Cold
  * Respiratory Syncytial Virus Infections

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Acute Bronchitis is the National
Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Acute Bronchitis_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 27 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 2 January 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

