

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Know Hepatitis B

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Know Hepatitis B

Minus

Related Pages

![Banner image with figure of a young girl riding piggy-back on a man's back.
At the top-left corner is the logo for the Know Hepatitis B campaign. At the
bottom is the text, 'Get tested for Hepatitis B. Treatments are available that
can save your life.'  The same text is to the left of the figure in differeent
asian languages.](/knowhepatitisb/images/444_HP-Banner_1185x698.jpg)

![50%](/knowhepatitisb/images/50Percent.jpg)

## Hepatitis B disproportionately affects Asian Americans

Hepatitis B is common worldwide, especially in many parts of Asia and the
Pacific Islands. In the U.S., hepatitis B disproportionately affects Asian
Americans. While Asian Americans make up 5% of the U.S. population, they
account for more than 50% of Americans living with hepatitis B.

* * *

![Icon for RX](/knowhepatitisb/images/HP-Icon-RX.jpg)

## Hepatitis B is serious, but treatments are available

Left untreated, nearly 1 in 4 people living with hepatitis B develop serious
liver problems, even liver cancer. In fact, hepatitis B-related liver cancer
is a leading cause of cancer deaths among Asian Americans. Getting tested for
hepatitis B can help many people access lifesaving treatments that can prevent
serious liver damage.

* * *

![Icon for two in three](/knowhepatitisb/images/HP-Icon-2in3.jpg)

## 2 in 3 Asian Americans with hepatitis B don't know they are infected

People can live with hepatitis B for decades without having any symptoms or
feeling sick. hepatitis B is usually spread when someone comes into contact
with blood from someone who has the virus, and many people living with
hepatitis B got infected as infants or young children. Testing is the only way
to know if someone has hepatitis B.

* * *

![Icon for checkmark](/knowhepatitisb/images/HP-Icon-Checkmark.png)

## Who should get tested for hepatitis B?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Anyone born regions of the world where hepatitis B is common, including Asia, the Pacific Islands and Africa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Anyone born in the United States, who was not vaccinated at birth, and has at least one parent born in regions of the world with high rate of hepatitis B, including East or Southeast Asia the Pacific Islands (except New Zealand and Australia) and Sub-Saharan Africa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hepatitis B testing identifies people living with hepatitis B so they can get medical care to help prevent serious liver damage. Talk to a doctor about getting tested for hepatitis B.

![Banner for Hepatitis B FAQ. Text reads, 'Have more questions about Hepatitis
B? Try our FAQ page.'](/knowhepatitisb/images/HP-QuestionsBanner.png)

Page last reviewed: January 28, 2020

Content source: Division of Viral Hepatitis, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

home Know Hepatitis B

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Questions and Answers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Campaign Materials in multiple languages expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * English
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Chinese (ä¸­æ)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vietnamese (tiáº¿ng Viá»t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Korean (íêµ­)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Burmese
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hmong (Hmoob)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Khmer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Lao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Multilingual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * African
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Logos and Usage Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Professional Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About the Campaign
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About our Partner
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Spread the Word

For more information on viral hepatitis from CDC, click here.

![Frame capture from PSA](/knowhepatitisb/images/HP-PSA.jpg)

**" Loving your family means taking care of yourself."**  
Watch this video encouraging individuals to talk to their doctors about being
tested for hepatitis B.  
Watch Now.

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

