Link: https://medlineplus.gov/throatcancer.html    
                                Description: Throat cancer has different names, depending on what part of the throat is affected (such as oropharynx). Learn the different symptoms and treatments.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Throat Cancer

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/throatcancer.html

#  Throat Cancer

Also called: Hypopharyngeal cancer, Laryngeal cancer, Laryngopharyngeal
cancer, Nasopharyngeal cancer, Oropharyngeal cancer, Pharyngeal cancer

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Throat cancer is a type of head and neck cancer. Throat cancer has different
names, depending on which part of the throat is affected. The different parts
of your throat are called the oropharynx, the hypopharynx, the nasopharynx,
and the larynx, or voice box.

The main risk factors for throat cancer are using tobacco heavy drinking.
Certain types of throat cancer also have other risk factors. For example,
having HPV is a risk factor for oropharyngeal cancer.

Symptoms of throat cancer may include

    * A sore throat that does not go away
    * A lump in the neck
    * Pain or ringing in the ears
    * Trouble swallowing
    * Ear pain

To diagnose throat cancers, doctors may do a physical exam and history,
imaging tests, and a biopsy. You may also need other tests, depending on the
type of cancer. Treatments include surgery, radiation therapy, and
chemotherapy. Treatment for some types of throat cancer may also include
targeted therapy. Targeted therapy uses drugs or other substances that attack
specific cancer cells with less harm to normal cells.

NIH: National Cancer Institute

## Start Here

    * Throat Cancer (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * What Are Oral Cavity and Oropharyngeal Cancers? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Can Laryngeal and Hypopharyngeal Cancers Be Found Early? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * Can Nasopharyngeal Cancer Be Found Early? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Can Laryngeal and Hypopharyngeal Cancers Be Prevented? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Treatment Options for Oral Cavity and Oropharyngeal Cancer by Stage (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Living With

    * Living as a Laryngeal or Hypopharyngeal Cancer Survivor (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * Mouth Dryness or Thick Saliva (American Cancer Society)
    * What Happens After Treatment for Laryngeal and Hypopharyngeal Cancer? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * What Happens After Treatment for Nasopharyngeal Cancer? (American Cancer Society)

## Related Issues

    * What Should You Ask Your Doctor about Laryngeal and Hypopharyngeal Cancer? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * General Information about Hypopharyngeal Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * General Information about Laryngeal Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * General Information about Nasopharyngeal Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * General Information about Oropharyngeal Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Human Papillomavirus (HPV) and Oropharyngeal Cancer (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Videos and Tutorials

    * Cancer of the throat or larynx ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Statistics and Research

    * Cancer of the Larynx ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Cancer of the Oral Cavity and Pharynx ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * HPV-Associated Oropharyngeal Cancer Rates by Race and Ethnicity (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * What Are the Key Statistics about Laryngeal and Hypopharyngeal Cancers? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * What Are the Key Statistics about Oral Cavity and Oropharyngeal Cancers? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * What's New in Laryngeal and Hypopharyngeal Cancer Research and Treatment? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * What's New in Nasopharyngeal Cancer Research and Treatment? (American Cancer Society)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hypopharyngeal Neoplasms ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Laryngeal Neoplasms ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Nasopharyngeal Neoplasms ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Oropharyngeal Neoplasms ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Pharyngeal Neoplasms ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: The efficacy and toxicity of induction chemotherapy plus concurrent chemoradiotherapy in...
    * Article: Comparison of xenogeneic acellular dermal matrix and skin grafts in reconstruction...
    * Article: Current management of stage IV nasopharyngeal carcinoma without distant metastasis.
    * Throat Cancer -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Dictionary of Cancer Terms ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Larynx Anatomy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)

## Find an Expert

    * American Academy of Otolaryngology--Head and Neck Surgery
    * American Cancer Society
    * Find a Cancer Doctor (American Society of Clinical Oncology)
    * Find an ENT (American Academy of Otolaryngology--Head and Neck Surgery)
    * National Cancer Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
    * NCI Designated Cancer Centers ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Organizations That Offer Support Services ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Laryngectomy (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Swallowing problems (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Throat or larynx cancer (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Throat Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThroatCancer.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Cancer of the throat or larynx
    * Laryngectomy
    * Oropharynx lesion biopsy
    * Swallowing problems
    * Throat or larynx cancer

## Related Health Topics

    * Head and Neck Cancer
    * Oral Cancer
    * Throat Disorders

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Throat Cancer is the National
Cancer Institute

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 2 April 2020 Topic last reviewed: 20 July 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

