Link: https://medlineplus.gov/headandneckcancer.html    
                                Description: Head and neck cancer includes cancers of the mouth, nose, sinuses, salivary glands, throat, and lymph nodes. Read the different symptoms of each type.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Head and Neck Cancer

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/headandneckcancer.html

#  Head and Neck Cancer

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Symptoms
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Head and neck cancer includes cancers of the mouth, nose, sinuses, salivary
glands, throat, and lymph nodes in the neck. Most begin in the moist tissues
that line the mouth, nose, and throat. Symptoms include

    * A lump or sore that does not heal
    * A sore throat that does not go away
    * Trouble swallowing
    * A change or hoarseness in the voice

Head and neck cancers are twice as common in men. Using tobacco or alcohol
increases your risk. In fact, around 75 percent of head and neck cancers are
linked to tobacco use, including smoking and smokeless tobacco. Infection with
HPV is a risk factor for some head and neck cancers.

To diagnose head and neck cancer, your doctor will do a physical exam and
diagnostic tests. You will have a biopsy, where a sample of tissue is taken
out and examined under a microscope. It is the only test that can tell for
sure if you have cancer.

If found early, these cancers are often curable. Treatments may include
surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, or a combination. Treatments can
affect eating, speaking or even breathing, so patients may need
rehabilitation.

NIH: National Cancer Institute

## Start Here

    * Head and Neck Cancer (American Society of Clinical Oncology)
    * Head and Neck Cancers ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Symptoms

    * Head and Neck Cancer: Symptoms and Signs (American Society of Clinical Oncology)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Computed Tomography (CT) -- Head ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) -- Head ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Drugs Approved for Head and Neck Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Head and Neck Cancer Treatment (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Cigar Smoking and Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Difficulty Chewing (American Society of Clinical Oncology) Also in Spanish
    * Human Papillomavirus (HPV) and Oropharyngeal Cancer (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Oral Complications of Chemotherapy and Head/Neck Radiation (PDQ) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Adenoid Cystic Carcinoma (American Society of Clinical Oncology)
    * General Information about Metastatic Squamous Neck Cancer with Occult Primary ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Voice Box (Laryngeal) Cancer (American Academy of Otolaryngology--Head and Neck Surgery)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: head and neck squamous cell carcinoma ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Head and Neck Neoplasms ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Cisplatin Weekly Versus Every 3 Weeks Concurrently with Radiotherapy in the...
    * Article: Promoter hypermethylation of CD133/PROM1 is an independent poor prognosis factor for...
    * Article: First person profile: William C. Faquin, MD, PhD: This Harvard pathologist...
    * Head and Neck Cancer -- see more articles
    * Ear,nose, and tracheal cancers -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Dictionary of Cancer Terms ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Find an Expert

    * American Academy of Otolaryngology--Head and Neck Surgery
    * American Cancer Society
    * Find a Cancer Doctor (American Society of Clinical Oncology)
    * Find an ENT (American Academy of Otolaryngology--Head and Neck Surgery)
    * National Cancer Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
    * NCI Designated Cancer Centers ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Organizations That Offer Support Services ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * After chemotherapy - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Glomus jugulare tumor (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Mouth and neck radiation - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Neck dissection (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Neck dissection - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Swallowing problems (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Head and Neck Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeadandNeckCancer.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * After chemotherapy - discharge
    * Glomus jugulare tumor
    * Head CT scan
    * Mouth and neck radiation - discharge
    * Neck dissection
    * Neck dissection - discharge
    * Swallowing problems

## Related Health Topics

    * Esophageal Cancer
    * Eye Cancer
    * Nasal Cancer
    * Oral Cancer
    * Parathyroid Disorders
    * Salivary Gland Cancer
    * Throat Cancer
    * Thyroid Cancer

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Head and Neck Cancer is the
National Cancer Institute

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 6 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 27 October 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

