

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Viral Hepatitis

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# About the Division of Viral Hepatitis

Minus

Related Pages

The Division of Viral Hepatitis (DVH) is part of the National Center for
HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention at CDC. In collaboration
with domestic and global partners, DVH provides the scientific and
programmatic foundation and leadership for the prevention and control of
hepatitis virus infections and their manifestations.

DVH consists of three branches -- the Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch,
the Prevention Branch, and the Laboratory Branch -- that work collaboratively
to prevent viral hepatitis infections and associated liver disease.

## Division of Viral Hepatitis (DVH) Strategic Plan, 2016-2020

To bring together the science and public health practice for the elimination
of viral hepatitis, DVH released the division's five-year strategic plan Cdc-
pdf[PDF - 17 pages]. The plan outlines the strategic imperatives, objectives,
and strategies necessary for making measurable progress in the prevention of
new infections and viral hepatitis associated illness and death.  The DVH
strategic plan shares many of the goals and priorities of the HHS National
Viral Hepatitis Action Plan 2017-2020External and also aligns with the NCHHSTP
strategic plan goals of decreasing disease incidence, morbidity and mortality,
and health disparities.  The Plan is DVH's outline for achieving its vision to
eliminate viral hepatitis in the United States and worldwide.

## Division of Viral Hepatitis Strategic Plan Overview

**Vision** :  
To eliminate viral hepatitis in the United States and worldwide

**Mission:  
**To bring together science and public-health practices to eliminate viral
hepatitis

**Goals:  
**Decrease incidence and prevalence of viral hepatitis

Decrease morbidity and mortality from viral hepatitis

Reduce viral hepatitis-related health disparities



Page last reviewed: May 23, 2016

Content source: Division of Viral Hepatitis, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

home Viral Hepatitis

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National Academiesâ Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sources for IG & HBIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Globalplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Georgiaâs Hepatitis C Elimination Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About the Division of Viral Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Contact Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Anonymous Feedback

Hepatitis A

Hepatitis B

Hepatitis C

Hepatitis D

Hepatitis E

Viral Hepatitis Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Statistics & Surveillance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Populations & Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Outbreaks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State and Local Partners & Grantees
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policy and Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Resource Center
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Global
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Anonymous Feedback

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

