Link: https://medlineplus.gov/hearingproblemsinchildren.html    
                                Description: Hearing problems can be temporary or permanent. About 2 or 3 out of every 1,000 children in the U.S. are born deaf or hard-of-hearing.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Hearing Problems in Children

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/hearingproblemsinchildren.html

#  Hearing Problems in Children

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers

## Summary

Most children hear and listen from the moment they are born. They learn to
talk by imitating the sounds around them and the voices of their parents and
caregivers. But about 2 or 3 out of every 1,000 children in the United States
are born deaf or hard-of-hearing. More lose their hearing later during
childhood.

Babies should have a hearing screening before they are a month old. If your
child has a hearing loss, it is important to consider the use of hearing
devices and other communication options by age 6 months. That's because
children start learning speech and language long before they talk.

Hearing problems can be temporary or permanent. Sometimes, ear infections,
injuries or diseases affect hearing. If your child does not hear well, get
help.

NIH: National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders

## Start Here

    * Hearing Loss in Children (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Your Baby's Hearing and Communicative Development Checklist ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Hearing Loss in Children: Screening and Diagnosis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Hearing Tests for Children ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Hearing Evaluation in Children (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Hearing Loss in Children: Treatment and Intervention Services (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Living With

    * Assistive Devices: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * American Sign Language ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders)
    * Building Languages (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Earbuds (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Ototoxicity (Ear Poisoning) (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Auditory Neuropathy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders) Also in Spanish
    * Auditory Neuropathy Spectrum Disorder (ANSD) (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)
    * Auditory Processing Disorder (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)
    * Auditory Processing Disorder in Children ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders)
    * Ear Injuries (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Enlarged Vestibular Aqueducts and Childhood Hearing Loss ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders) Also in Spanish
    * Hearing Loss and Your Baby (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Hearing Loss in Children: Types of Hearing Loss (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Overview on Deaf-Blindness (National Consortium on Deaf-Blindness)
    * Pendred Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders) Also in Spanish

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: CHARGE syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: deafness and myopia syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: nonsyndromic hearing loss ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: thiamine-responsive megaloblastic anemia syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics of Hearing Loss (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Videos and Tutorials

    * Hearing and the cochlea ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * How Loud Is Too Loud? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders) Also in Spanish
    * Travel Inside the Ear ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders) Also in Spanish

## Statistics and Research

    * Hearing Loss in Children: Data and Statistics (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Deafness ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hearing Disorders ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Concurrent hearing and genetic screening in a general newborn population.
    * Article: A novel de novo MYH9 mutation in MYH9-related disease: A case...
    * Article: A musical perception test for people with hearing loss: Turkish adaptation...
    * Hearing Problems in Children -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * NIDCD Glossary ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders)
    * Your Ears (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Find an Expert

    * Directory of Organizations (Deafness and Communication Disorders) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders)
    * Find an Audiologist (American Academy of Audiology)
    * National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * Can Loud Music Hurt My Ears? (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Going to the Audiologist (Nemours Foundation)
    * What's Hearing Loss? (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

    * Acoustic Trauma - Hearing Loss in Teenagers (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish
    * Hearing Impairment (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Hearing Problems in
Children](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HearingProblemsinChildren.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Audiometry
    * Ear examination
    * Hearing and the cochlea
    * Hearing loss - infants

## Related Health Topics

    * Assistive Devices
    * Cochlear Implants
    * Hearing Aids
    * Hearing Disorders and Deafness

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Hearing Problems in Children is
the National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Hearing Problems
in Children_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 6 February 2020 Topic last reviewed: 15 September 2014

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

