

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Viral Hepatitis

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Global Viral Hepatitis: Millions of People are Affected

Minus

Related Pages

Viral hepatitis (hepatitis A, hepatitis B, hepatitis C, hepatitis D, hepatitis
E) affects millions of people around the globe; hepatitis B and C result in
chronic infections and disproportionately impact certain countries (see maps
below).

Countries most affected by hepatitis B

![Globe map, showing Hepatitis B prevalence with five
levels](/hepatitis/global/images/CountriesAffectedByHepB.png)

Countries most affected by hepatitis C

![Globe map, showing Hepatitis C prevalence with five
levels](/hepatitis/global/images/CountriesAffectedByHepC.png)

Source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC Yellow Book 2020:
Health Information for International Travel. New York: Oxford University
Press; 2017.

The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that in 2015:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 257 million people worldwide had hepatitis B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 71 million people worldwide had hepatitis C

Both of these types of hepatitis can lead to lifelong infection. WHO estimated
that during the same year, 1.34 million people died from liver cancer,
cirrhosis, and other conditions caused by chronic viral hepatitis (1).

Hepatitis A and hepatitis E infections do not result in chronic infection but
can be severe and cause liver damage and death. Outbreaks of these infections
occur worldwide, particularly in parts of the world with poor sanitation.

## Progress Being Made Worldwide

All types of viral hepatitis can be controlled or prevented.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hepatitis C can be cured; a once-daily medication taken by mouth for as few as 8 weeks can cure most people who are infected with hepatitis C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hepatitis B medications are available to help prevent liver damage and slow progression of the disease.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hepatitis A and hepatitis B can both be prevented with safe and effective vaccines. Efforts to increase the number of children vaccinated against hepatitis B around the world have dramatically reduced the number of new hepatitis B virus (HBV) infections.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hepatitis A and hepatitis E can also be prevented and cases reduced with improvements in sanitation, because these infections are transmitted from infected feces either person-to person or through contaminated food and drinking water.

## Room for Improvement in Prevention and Treatment

Safe and effective vaccines to protect against hepatitis A and hepatitis B are
available. Hepatitis A vaccine is used in only a few countries; greater use of
the vaccine has the potential to control outbreaks. In 2015, global coverage
with three doses of hepatitis B vaccine was 84%, and 39% of children received
a dose at birth, which is necessary to prevent mother-to-child transmission of
this infection. Improving rates of vaccination coverage, especially among
including infants and children, will reduce hepatitis B infection, which can
lead to liver disease and death.

Even though affordable, safe, and effective treatments can prevent liver
disease and liver cancer among people living with hepatitis B and cure those
living with hepatitis C, WHO estimated that only 10% of people with hepatitis
B and 20% of people with hepatitis C worldwide knew they were infected in
2015. Of these, less than 10% had received treatment (1).

## CDC's Division of Viral Hepatitis Collaborates Worldwide

As a designated WHO Collaborating Centre for Reference and Research on Viral
Hepatitis, CDC's Division of Viral Hepatitis helps WHO implement its viral
hepatitis strategyexternal icon and make progress towards achieving global
viral hepatitis elimination goals in countries around the world (see map
below). Collaborative work with partners, including in-country national CDC
offices, Ministries of Health, international public health professionals, and
foreign government officials, is focused on efforts to develop, implement,
monitor, and evaluate viral hepatitis-related guidelines, policies, plans, and
programs. For example, CDC helped plan for and implement the country of
Georgia's hepatitis C elimination program, the first program of its kind, and
is continuing to provide technical assistance to Georgia as the program goes
forward. This type of international collaboration not only helps the host
country, but can help reduce the risk for disease among U.S. travelers abroad
and reduce the likelihood that people coming to the United States are
infected.

Map: A partial list of countries* with whom CDC's Division of Viral Hepatitis
has recently collaborated to enhance viral hepatitis prevention and control
efforts

![World map with the following countries highlighted: Bangladesh, China,
Georgia, Haiti, India, Kenya, Mauritania, Mongolia, Namibia, Pakistan, Peru,
Uganda, Ukraine, United Republic of Tanzania, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, and
Zambia](/hepatitis/global/images/DVHCollaboratingCountries.png)

*Bangladesh, China, Georgia, Haiti, India, Kenya, Mauritania, Mongolia, Namibia, Pakistan, Peru, Uganda, Ukraine, United Republic of Tanzania, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, and Zambia

## Global Efforts to Improve Delivery of Hepatitis B Vaccine during Infancy

The safe and effective hepatitis B vaccine has dramatically decreased the
number of new hepatitis B virus infections reported worldwide, but many
unvaccinated children continue to become infected. The biggest gap in
vaccination coverage is the failure to administer a first dose of vaccine
within 24 hours of birth, which is needed to protect infants, particularly
infants born to HBV-infected mothers. According to WHO, fewer than 40% of
children worldwide had received a birth-dose of hepatitis B vaccine in 2015
(1).

## Global Efforts to Eliminate Viral Hepatitis

In 2016, WHO's World Health Assembly called for global elimination of viral
hepatitis by 2030 (2) and set global targets of achieving 90% reduction in new
cases of hepatitis B and hepatitis C, a 65% reduction in deaths from hepatitis
B and hepatitis C, and treatment of 80% of people living with these infections
(3). Individual countries are now in different stages of developing their own
viral hepatitis elimination plans (4).

## References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. World Health Organization. Global hepatitis report, 2017. Available at: https://www.who.int/hepatitis/publications/global-hepatitis-report2017/en/external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2. Draft Global Health Sector Strategies Viral Hepatitis 2016-2021\. Available at: https://www.who.int/hepatitis/strategy2016-2021/enexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3. WHO. Combating Hepatitis B and C to Reach Elimination by 2030. World Health Organization, Geneva; 2016.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4. Center for Disease Analysis Foundation. Just 12 countries worldwide on track to eliminate hepatitis C infection by 2030, with United Kingdom, Italy and Spain among those joining the list. 2018 [cited 2019 June 5]; Available from: https://cdafound.org/just-12-countries-worldwide-on-track-to-eliminate-hepatitis-c-infection-by-2030-with-united-kingdom-italy-and-spain-among-those-joining-the-list/?platform=hootsuiteexternal icon.

Page last reviewed: November 6, 2019

Content source: Division of Viral Hepatitis, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

home Viral Hepatitis

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National Academiesâ Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sources for IG & HBIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Globalplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Georgiaâs Hepatitis C Elimination Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About the Division of Viral Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Contact Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Anonymous Feedback

Hepatitis A

Hepatitis B

Hepatitis C

Hepatitis D

Hepatitis E

Viral Hepatitis Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Statistics & Surveillance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Populations & Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Outbreaks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State and Local Partners & Grantees
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policy and Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Resource Center
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Global
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Anonymous Feedback

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM

