Link: https://medlineplus.gov/sepsis.html    
                                Description: Sepsis is a serious illness and can lead to a life threatening condition called septic shock. Read about symptoms, treatment and risk factors for sepsis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Sepsis

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/sepsis.html

#  Sepsis

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Diagnosis and Tests
  * Prevention and Risk Factors

### Learn More

  * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

  * No links available

### Research

  * Statistics and Research
  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Children
  * Teenagers
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Sepsis is a serious illness. It happens when your body has an overwhelming
immune response to a bacterial infection. The chemicals released into the
blood to fight the infection trigger widespread inflammation. This leads to
blood clots and leaky blood vessels. They cause poor blood flow, which
deprives your body's organs of nutrients and oxygen. In severe cases, one or
more organs fail. In the worst cases, blood pressure drops and the heart
weakens, leading to septic shock.

Anyone can get sepsis, but the risk is higher in

  * People with weakened immune systems
  * Infants and children
  * Adults 65 and older
  * People with chronic illnesses, such as diabetes, AIDS, cancer, and kidney or liver disease
  * People suffering from a severe burn or physical trauma

Common symptoms of sepsis are fever, chills, rapid breathing and heart rate,
rash, confusion, and disorientation. Doctors diagnose sepsis using a blood
test to see if the number of white blood cells is abnormal. They also do lab
tests that check for signs of infection.

People with sepsis are usually treated in hospital intensive care units.
Doctors try to treat the infection, sustain the vital organs, and prevent a
drop in blood pressure. Many patients receive oxygen and intravenous (IV)
fluids. Other types of treatment, such as respirators or kidney dialysis, may
be necessary. Sometimes, surgery is needed to clear up an infection.

NIH: National Institute of General Medical Sciences

## Start Here

  * Sepsis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Surviving Sepsis: Taming a Deadly Immune Response ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
  * What Is Sepsis? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of General Medical Sciences) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Bacteria Culture Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Blood Culture Test (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
  * Lactic Acid Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Procalcitonin Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

  * CDC Vital Signs: Making Health Care Safer -- Think Sepsis. Time Matters. (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

  * Bacteremia (Merck & Co., Inc.) Also in Spanish
  * Blood Poisoning: When to See a Doctor (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Toxic Shock Syndrome (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)

## Statistics and Research

  * Life After Traumatic Injury: How the Body Responds ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of General Medical Sciences)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Bacteremia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Sepsis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Septicemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Shock, Septic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: A multicenter retrospective analysis of the antifungal susceptibility patterns of Candida...
  * Article: Serum ammonia levels on admission for predicting sepsis patient mortality at...
  * Article: History of diabetes may delay antibiotic administration in patients with severe...
  * Sepsis -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

  * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

  * Blood Culture (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)
  * Fast Facts about Group B Strep and Pregnancy (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
  * Sepsis (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)

## Teenagers

  * Toxic Shock Syndrome (For Teens) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

  * Blood culture (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Group B streptococcal septicemia of the newborn (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Neonatal sepsis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Sepsis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Septic shock (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Septicemia (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Toxic shock syndrome (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Sepsis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Sepsis.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Blood culture
  * Group B streptococcal septicemia of the newborn
  * Lactic acidosis
  * Neonatal sepsis
  * Sepsis
  * Septic shock
  * Septicemia
  * Toxic shock syndrome

## Related Health Topics

  * Bacterial Infections

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Sepsis is the National Institute
of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 23 September 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

