Link: https://medlineplus.gov/acutemyeloidleukemia.html    
                                Description: Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) is a cancer of the white blood cells. AML usually gets worse quickly if it is not treated. Read more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Acute Myeloid Leukemia

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/acutemyeloidleukemia.html

#  Acute Myeloid Leukemia

Also called: Acute myelogenous leukemia, AML, ANLL

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Leukemia is cancer of the white blood cells. White blood cells help your body
fight infection. Your blood cells form in your bone marrow. In leukemia,
however, the bone marrow produces abnormal white blood cells. These cells
crowd out the healthy blood cells, making it hard for blood to do its work. In
acute myeloid leukemia (AML), there are too many of a specific type of white
blood cell called a myeloblast.

AML is the most common type of acute leukemia in adults. This type of cancer
usually gets worse quickly if it is not treated. Possible risk factors include
smoking, previous chemotherapy treatment, and exposure to radiation.

Symptoms of AML include:

    * Fever
    * Shortness of breath
    * Easy bruising or bleeding
    * Bleeding under the skin
    * Weakness or feeling tired
    * Weight loss or loss of appetite

Tests that examine the blood and bone marrow diagnose AML. Treatments include
chemotherapy, other drugs, radiation therapy, stem cell transplants, and
targeted therapy. Targeted therapy uses drugs or other substances that attack
specific cancer cells with less harm to normal cells. Once the leukemia is in
remission, you need additional treatment to make sure that it does not come
back.

NIH: National Cancer Institute

## Start Here

    * Acute Myelogenous Leukemia (AML) (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * AML Guide: Information for Patients and Caregivers (Leukemia & Lymphoma Society) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * General Information about Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * What Is Acute Myeloid Leukemia? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Blood Count Tests: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * How Is Acute Myeloid Leukemia Classified? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * How Is Acute Myeloid Leukemia Diagnosed? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * Lab and Imaging Tests (Leukemia & Lymphoma Society) Also in Spanish
    * Stages of Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * What Are Bone Marrow Tests? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Can Acute Myeloid Leukemia Be Prevented? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * What Are the Risk Factors for Acute Myeloid Leukemia? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Blood Transfusion (Leukemia & Lymphoma Society)
    * Bone Marrow Transplantation: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Immunotherapy (Leukemia & Lymphoma Society) Also in Spanish
    * Integrative Medicine and Complementary and Alternative Therapies (Leukemia & Lymphoma Society) Also in Spanish
    * Treatment of Acute Promyelocytic (M3) Leukemia (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * Treatment Option Overview (Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Treatment Options for Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * What If the Leukemia Doesn't Respond or Comes Back After Treatment? (AML) (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Genetics

    * Do We Know What Causes Acute Myeloid Leukemia? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * Genetics Home Reference: 8p11 myeloproliferative syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: acute promyelocytic leukemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: core binding factor acute myeloid leukemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: cytogenetically normal acute myeloid leukemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: familial acute myeloid leukemia with mutated CEBPA ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Statistics and Research

    * Advances in Leukemia Research ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Cancer Statistics: Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * What Are the Key Statistics about Acute Myeloid Leukemia? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * What's New in Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia Research and Treatment? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Leukemia, Myeloid, Acute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * Types of Treatment: Clinical Trials (Leukemia & Lymphoma Society)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Clinical Significance of CD200 and CD56 Expression in Patients with Acute...
    * Article: IDH Mutations in AML Patients; A higher Association with Intermediate Risk...
    * Article: Ivosidenib to treat adult patients with relapsed or refractory acute myeloid...
    * Acute Myeloid Leukemia -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * American Cancer Society
    * Find a Cancer Doctor (American Society of Clinical Oncology)
    * Leukemia & Lymphoma Society
    * National Cancer Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
    * NCI Designated Cancer Centers ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) -- children (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Acute myeloid leukemia (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * After chemotherapy - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Bone marrow transplant (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Bone marrow transplant - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![white blood
cells](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LeukemiaWhiteBloodCell.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) -- children
    * Acute myeloid leukemia
    * After chemotherapy - discharge
    * Bone marrow biopsy
    * Bone marrow transplant
    * Bone marrow transplant - discharge
    * Bone-marrow transplant - slideshow
    * Cryoglobulins
    * Fibrinopeptide A blood test

## Related Health Topics

    * Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia
    * Childhood Leukemia
    * Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
    * Chronic Myeloid Leukemia
    * Leukemia

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Acute Myeloid Leukemia is the
National Cancer Institute

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 October 2019 Topic last reviewed: 20 May 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

