Link: https://medlineplus.gov/cervicalcancerscreening.html    
                                Description: Cervical cancer can often be cured if found early. Read about screening, using pap smears and testing for the HPV virus, which causes most cases.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Cervical Cancer Screening

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/cervicalcancerscreening.html

#  Cervical Cancer Screening

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images
    * Health Check Tools

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Teenagers
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

The cervix is the lower part of the uterus, the place where a baby grows
during pregnancy. Cancer screening is looking for cancer before you have any
symptoms. Cancer found early may be easier to treat.

Cervical cancer screening is usually part of a woman's health checkup. There
are two types of tests: the Pap test and the HPV test. For both, the doctor or
nurse collects cells from the surface of the cervix. With the Pap test, the
lab checks the sample for cancer cells or abnormal cells that could become
cancer later. With the HPV test, the lab checks for HPV infection. HPV is a
virus that spreads through sexual contact. It can sometimes lead to cancer. If
your screening tests are abnormal, your doctor may do more tests, such as a
biopsy.

Cervical cancer screening has risks. The results can sometimes be wrong, and
you may have unnecessary follow-up tests. There are also benefits. Screening
has been shown to decrease the number of deaths from cervical cancer. You and
your doctor should discuss your risk for cervical cancer, the pros and cons of
the screening tests, at what age to start being screened, and how often to be
screened.

## Start Here

    * Cervical Cancer Screening (American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists) \- PDF
    * Cervical Cancer Screening ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Get Screened for Cervical Cancer ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotion)
    * New Guidelines for Cervical Cancer Screening (American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists) \- PDF
    * Prevent Cervical Cancer ![Infographic](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Infographic.gif) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Understanding Cervical Changes: A Health Guide for Women ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * What Should I Know about Screening? (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Pap Smear: Do I Need One If I'm a Virgin? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Pap Smear: Still Necessary After Hysterectomy? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Risks of Cervical Cancer Screening ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Abnormal Cervical Cancer Screening Test Results (American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists) \- PDF
    * How to Interpret Abnormal Pap Smear Results (American Academy of Family Physicians)
    * Human Papillomavirus (HPV) Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Pap and HPV Testing ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Pap Smear ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Screening for Cervical Cancer (U.S. Preventive Services Task Force) \- PDF

## Images

    * Pap Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)

## Health Check Tools

    * Your Cervical Cancer Risk (Siteman Cancer Center)

## Statistics and Research

    * CDC Vital Signs: Cervical Cancer is Preventable (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * FastStats: Pap Tests (National Center for Health Statistics)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Human Papillomavirus DNA Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Papanicolaou Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Vaginal Smears ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Effectiveness of a Health Education Program to Improve Knowledge and Attitude...
    * Article: Education, income and occupation and their influence on the uptake of...
    * Article: Optimizing high risk HPV-based primary screening for cervical cancer in low-...
    * Cervical Cancer Screening -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Dictionary of Cancer Terms ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * New Guidelines for Cervical Cancer Screening (American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists) \- PDF

## Find an Expert

    * American Cancer Society
    * Find a Cancer Doctor (American Society of Clinical Oncology)
    * National Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program (NBCCEDP): Find a Screening Provider Near You (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * National Cancer Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

    * Pap Smears (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Cervical cancer -- screening and prevention (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * HPV DNA test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Pap and HPV Testing ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Pap smear (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Cervical Cancer
Screening](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CervicalCancerScreening.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Colposcopy - directed biopsy
    * HPV DNA test

## Related Health Topics

    * Cervical Cancer
    * HPV
    * Women's Health Checkup

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Cervical Cancer Screening is the
National Cancer Institute

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Cervical Cancer
Screening_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 10 February 2020 Topic last reviewed: 24 May 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

