Link: https://medlineplus.gov/neuroblastoma.html    
                                Description: Neuroblastoma is a cancer in nerve tissue in the adrenal gland, neck, chest, or spinal cord. It often affects young children. Read about treatments.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Neuroblastoma

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/neuroblastoma.html

#  Neuroblastoma

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is neuroblastoma?

Neuroblastoma is a type of cancer that forms in nerve cells called
neuroblasts. Neuroblasts are immature nerve tissue. They normally turn into
working nerve cells. But in neuroblastoma, they form a tumor.

Neuroblastoma usually begins in the adrenal glands. You have two adrenal
glands, one on top of each kidney. The adrenal glands make important hormones
that help control heart rate, blood pressure, blood sugar, and the way the
body reacts to stress. Neuroblastoma may also begin in the neck, chest or
spinal cord.

### What causes neuroblastoma?

Neuroblastoma is caused by mutations (changes) in genes. In most cases, the
cause of the mutation is unknown. In some other cases, the mutation is passed
from the parent to the child.

### What are the symptoms of neuroblastoma?

Neuroblastoma often begins in early childhood. Sometimes it begins before a
child is born.The most common symptoms are caused by the tumor pressing on
nearby tissues as it grows or by cancer spreading to the bone.They include

    * A lump in the abdomen, neck or chest
    * Bulging eyes
    * Dark circles around the eyes
    * Bone pain
    * Swollen stomach and trouble breathing in babies
    * Painless, bluish lumps under the skin in babies
    * Inability to move a body part (paralysis)

### How is neuroblastoma diagnosed?

To diagnose neuroblastoma, your child's health care provider will do various
tests and procedures, which may include

    * A medical history
    * A neurological exam
    * Imaging tests, such as x-rays, a CT scan an ultrasound, an MRI, or an MIBG scan. In an MIBG scan, a small amount of a radioactive substance is injected into a vein. It travels through the bloodstream and attaches itself to any neuroblastoma cells. A scanner detects the cells.
    * Blood and urine tests
    * Biopsy, where a sample of tissue is removed and examined under a microscope
    * Bone marrow aspiration and biopsy, where bone marrow, blood, and a small piece of bone are removed for testing

### What are the treatments for neuroblastoma?

The treatments for neuroblastoma include:

    * Observation, also called watchful waiting, where the health care provider does not give any treatments until your child's signs or symptoms appear or change
    * Surgery
    * Radiation therapy
    * Chemotherapy
    * High-dose chemotherapy and radiation therapy with stem cell rescue. Your child will get high doses of chemotherapy and radiation. This kills the cancer cells, but it also kills healthy cells. So your child will get a stem cell transplant, usually of his or her own cells collected earlier. This helps to replace the healthy cells that were lost.
    * Iodine 131-MIBG therapy, a treatment with radioactive iodine. The radioactive iodine collects in neuroblastoma cells and kills them with the radiation that is given off.
    * Targeted therapy, which uses drugs or other substances that attack specific cancer cells with less harm to normal cells

NIH: National Cancer Institute

## Start Here

    * Neuroblastoma (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Neuroblastoma - Childhood (American Society of Clinical Oncology)
    * What Is Neuroblastoma? (American Cancer Society)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * How Is Neuroblastoma Diagnosed? (American Cancer Society)
    * Neuroblastoma in Children: Just Diagnosed Information (CureSearch for Children's Cancer)
    * Neuroblastoma Screening ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * VMA Test (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Neuroblastoma Treatment ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)

## Related Issues

    * Do We Know What Causes Neuroblastoma? (American Cancer Society)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: neuroblastoma ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Statistics and Research

    * What Are the Key Statistics about Neuroblastoma? (American Cancer Society)
    * What's New in Neuroblastoma Research and Treatment? (American Cancer Society)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Neuroblastoma ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Development and validation of a nomogram to predict the overall survival...
    * Article: The Diagnostic Accuracy of PET(CT) in Patients With Neuroblastoma: A Meta-Analysis...
    * Article: The prognostic roles of and correlation between ALK and MYCN protein...
    * Neuroblastoma -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Dictionary of Cancer Terms ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Find an Expert

    * American Cancer Society
    * Find a Cancer Doctor (American Society of Clinical Oncology)
    * National Cancer Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * After chemotherapy - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Catecholamines - urine (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * MIBG scintiscan (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Neuroblastoma (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Neuroblastoma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Neuroblastoma.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * After chemotherapy - discharge
    * Catecholamine blood test
    * Catecholamines - urine
    * Ganglioneuroblastoma
    * MIBG scintiscan
    * Neuroblastoma

## Related Health Topics

    * Cancer in Children

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Neuroblastoma is the National
Cancer Institute

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 October 2019 Topic last reviewed: 4 August 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

