Link: https://medlineplus.gov/chronicmyeloidleukemia.html    
                                Description: Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is a cancer of the white blood cells. It usually affects older adults. Learn about symptoms, genetics, and treatment.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Chronic Myeloid Leukemia

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/chronicmyeloidleukemia.html

#  Chronic Myeloid Leukemia

Also called: Chronic granulocytic leukemia, Chronic myelogenous leukemia, CML

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Leukemia is cancer of the white blood cells. White blood cells help your body
fight infection. Your blood cells form in your bone marrow. In leukemia, the
bone marrow produces abnormal white blood cells. These cells crowd out the
healthy blood cells, making it hard for blood to do its work. In chronic
myeloid leukemia (CML), there are too many granulocytes, a type of white blood
cell.

Most people with CML have a gene mutation (change) called the Philadelphia
chromosome.

Sometimes CML does not cause any symptoms. If you have symptoms, they may
include:

    * Fatigue
    * Weight loss
    * Night sweats
    * Fever
    * Pain or a feeling of fullness below the ribs on the left side

Tests that examine the blood and bone marrow diagnose CML. Treatments include
chemotherapy, stem cell transplants, infusion of donated white blood cells
following stem cell transplants, surgery to remove the spleen, and biologic
and targeted therapies. Biologic therapy boosts your body's own ability to
fight cancer. Targeted therapy uses drugs or other substances that attack
specific cancer cells with less harm to normal cells.

NIH: National Cancer Institute

## Start Here

    * Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia (CML) (National Marrow Donor Program)
    * Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (Leukemia & Lymphoma Society) \- PDF
    * General Information about Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * What Is Chronic Myeloid Leukemia? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * BCR ABL Genetic Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * How Is Chronic Myeloid Leukemia Diagnosed? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * Lab and Imaging Tests (Leukemia & Lymphoma Society) Also in Spanish
    * Stages of Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * What Are Bone Marrow Tests? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * What Are the Risk Factors for Chronic Myeloid Leukemia? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Blood Transfusion (Leukemia & Lymphoma Society)
    * Bone Marrow Transplantation: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Immunotherapy (Leukemia & Lymphoma Society) Also in Spanish
    * Integrative Medicine and Complementary and Alternative Therapies (Leukemia & Lymphoma Society) Also in Spanish
    * Treating Chronic Myeloid Leukemia by Phase (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * Treatment Option Overview (Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Treatment Options for Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Atypical Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * What Should You Ask Your Doctor about Chronic Myeloid Leukemia? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Genetics

    * Do We Know What Causes Chronic Myeloid Leukemia? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * Genetics Home Reference: chronic myeloid leukemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Statistics and Research

    * Cancer Statistics: Chronic Myeloid Leukemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * What's New in Chronic Myeloid Leukemia Research and Treatment? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Leukemia, Myelogenous, Chronic, BCR-ABL Positive ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Leukemia, Myeloid, Chronic, Atypical, BCR-ABL Negative ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * Types of Treatment: Clinical Trials (Leukemia & Lymphoma Society)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Clinical efficacy and safety of imatinib treatment in children and adolescents...
    * Article: Treatment-free remission after first-line dasatinib discontinuation in patients with chronic myeloid...
    * Article: Impact of marrow blasts percentage on high-grade myelodysplastic syndrome assessed using...
    * Chronic Myeloid Leukemia -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * American Cancer Society
    * Find a Cancer Doctor (American Society of Clinical Oncology)
    * Leukemia & Lymphoma Society
    * National Cancer Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
    * NCI Designated Cancer Centers ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * After chemotherapy - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Bone marrow transplant (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Bone marrow transplant - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![white blood
cells](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LeukemiaWhiteBloodCell.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * After chemotherapy - discharge
    * Bone marrow biopsy
    * Bone marrow transplant
    * Bone marrow transplant - discharge
    * Bone-marrow transplant - slideshow
    * Chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML)
    * Cryoglobulins
    * Fibrinopeptide A blood test

## Related Health Topics

    * Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia
    * Acute Myeloid Leukemia
    * Childhood Leukemia
    * Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
    * Leukemia

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Chronic Myeloid Leukemia is the
National Cancer Institute

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 October 2019 Topic last reviewed: 20 May 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

