Link: https://medlineplus.gov/cancerimmunotherapy.html    
                                Description: Immunotherapy is a cancer treatment that helps your immune system fight cancer. Learn about the different types, including targeted therapy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Cancer Immunotherapy

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/cancerimmunotherapy.html

#  Cancer Immunotherapy

## Summary

Immunotherapy is a cancer treatment that helps your immune system fight
cancer. It is a type of biological therapy. Biological therapy uses substances
that are made from living organisms, or versions of these substances that are
made in a lab.

Doctors don't yet use immunotherapy as often as other cancer treatments, such
as surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy. But they do use immunotherapy
for some types of cancer, and researchers are doing clinical trials to see
whether it also works for other types.

When you have cancer, some of your cells begin to multiply without stopping.
They spread into the surrounding tissues. One reason that the cancer cells can
keep growing and spreading is that they are able to hide from your immune
system. Some immunotherapies can "mark" your cancer cells. This makes it
easier for your immune system to find and destroy the cells. It is a type of
targeted therapy, which uses drugs or other substances that attack specific
cancer cells with less harm to normal cells. Other types of immunotherapies
work by boosting your immune system to work better against cancer.

You could get immunotherapy intravenously (by IV), in pills or capsules, or in
a cream for your skin. For bladder cancer, they might place it directly into
your bladder. You may have treatment every day, week, or month. Some
immunotherapies are given in cycles. It depends on your type of cancer, how
advanced it is, the type of immunotherapy you get, and how well it is working.

You may have side effects. The most common side effects are skin reactions at
the needle site, if you get it by IV. Other side effects may include flu-like
symptoms, or rarely, severe reactions.

NIH: National Cancer Institute

## Learn More

    * Immunotherapy (American Cancer Society)
    * Immunotherapy (Leukemia & Lymphoma Society) Also in Spanish
    * Immunotherapy (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)
    * Immunotherapy to Treat Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Immunotherapy: Disrupting the Cancer Treatment World (American Cancer Society)
    * Immunotherapy: questions to ask your doctor (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * NCI's Role in Immunotherapy Research ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * PDL1 (Immunotherapy) Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Radioimmunotherapy (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Cancer Immunotherapy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Tumor Microenvironment, Metabolism, and Immunotherapy.
    * Article: Substantial tumor regression in prostate cancer patient with extensive skeletal metastases...
    * Article: The effect of liver metastasis on efficacy of immunotherapy plus chemotherapy...
    * Cancer Immunotherapy -- see more articles

## Patient Handouts

    * Immunotherapy for cancer (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Cancer
Immunotherapy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CancerImmunotherapy.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Cancer Immunotherapy is the
National Cancer Institute

## NIH MedlinePlus Magazine

    * Fighting Cancer: Ins and Outs of Immunotherapy
    * Using Your Own Immune System to Fight Cancer

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 2 April 2020 Topic last reviewed: 10 August 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

