Link: https://medlineplus.gov/cervicalcancer.html    
                                Description: The cervix is the lower part of a woman&#39;s uterus. Most cervical cancer is caused by the HPV virus. It can often be cured if found early - learn how.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Cervical Cancer

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/cervicalcancer.html

#  Cervical Cancer

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Symptoms
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

The cervix is the lower part of the uterus, the place where a baby grows
during pregnancy. Cervical cancer is caused by a virus called HPV. The virus
spreads through sexual contact. Most women's bodies are able to fight HPV
infection. But sometimes the virus leads to cancer. You're at higher risk if
you smoke, have had many children, use birth control pills for a long time, or
have HIV infection.

Cervical cancer may not cause any symptoms at first. Later, you may have
pelvic pain or bleeding from the vagina. It usually takes several years for
normal cells in the cervix to turn into cancer cells. Your health care
provider can find abnormal cells by doing a Pap test to examine cells from the
cervix. You may also have an HPV test. If your results are abnormal, you may
need a biopsy or other tests. By getting regular screenings, you can find and
treat any problems before they turn into cancer.

Treatment may include surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, or a
combination. The choice of treatment depends on the size of the tumor, whether
the cancer has spread and whether you would like to become pregnant someday.

Vaccines can protect against several types of HPV, including some that can
cause cancer.

NIH: National Cancer Institute

## Start Here

    * Cervical Cancer (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health)
    * General Information about Cervical Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Symptoms

    * Signs and Symptoms of Cervical Cancer (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Cervical Cancer Screening: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * How Is Cervical Cancer Diagnosed? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * Stages of Cervical Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Cervical Cancer Prevention ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Human Papillomavirus (HPV) Vaccines ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Understanding Cervical Changes: A Health Guide for Women ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Drugs Approved for Cervical Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Gynecologic Cancers: Treatment Types (American Society for Radiation Oncology)
    * Loop Electrosurgical Excision Procedure (LEEP) (American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists) \- PDF
    * Surgery for Cervical Cancer (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * Treatment Option Overview (Cervical Cancer) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Treatment Options by Stage (Cervical Cancer) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Cancer Treatment for Women: Possible Sexual Side Effects (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Cervical Dysplasia: Is It Cancer? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Diethylstilbestrol (DES) and Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * HPV and Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Oral Contraceptives and Cancer Risk ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Images

    * Cervical Cancer Stage IA ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Cervical Cancer Stage IB ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Cervical Cancer Stage IIIA ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Cervical Cancer Stage IIIB ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Cervical Cancer Stage IVA ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Cervical Cancer Stage IVB ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)

## Statistics and Research

    * CDC's Cervical Cancer Study (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Increased Risk of Rare Cancer as DES Daughters Age (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * What Are the Key Statistics about Cervical Cancer? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * What`s New in Cervical Cancer Research and Treatment? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Uterine Cervical Neoplasms ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Effectiveness of a Health Education Program to Improve Knowledge and Attitude...
    * Article: CTLA-4 rs5742909 polymorphism and cervical cancer risk: A meta-analysis.
    * Article: Apatinib combined with chemotherapy or concurrent chemo-brachytherapy in patients with recurrent...
    * Cervical Cancer -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Dictionary of Cancer Terms ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Find an Expert

    * American Cancer Society
    * Find a Cancer Doctor (American Society of Clinical Oncology)
    * National Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program (NBCCEDP): Find a Screening Provider Near You (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * National Cancer Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
    * NCI Designated Cancer Centers ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Organizations That Offer Support Services ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Cervical cancer (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Cervical Cancer (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF
    * Cervical cancer -- screening and prevention (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Cervical dysplasia (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Treatment Option Overview (Cervical Cancer) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Cervical Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CervicalCancer2.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * After chemotherapy - discharge
    * Cervical cancer
    * Cervical cancer -- screening and prevention
    * Cervical dysplasia
    * Cervical dysplasia - slideshow
    * Cervix treatment - cryosurgery
    * Cold knife cone biopsy
    * Colposcopy - directed biopsy
    * Pelvic (between the hips) radiation - discharge
    * Pelvic CT scan
    * Pelvis MRI scan

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

    * Cervical Cancer Screening
    * Cervix Disorders
    * Women's Health Checkup

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Cervical Cancer is the National
Cancer Institute

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Cervical Cancer_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 17 October 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

