Link: https://medlineplus.gov/cancerinchildren.html    
                                Description: You will have a lot of questions if your child is diagnosed with cancer. Many cancers in children can be treated. Learn about childhood cancers.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Cancer in Children

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/cancerinchildren.html

#  Cancer in Children

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Cancer is a group related diseases. In all types of cancer, some of the body's
cells begin to divide without stopping and spread into surrounding tissues.

Normally, new cells form as you need them, replacing old cells that die.
Sometimes, this process goes wrong. New cells form when you don't need them,
and old cells don't die when they should. The extra cells can form a tumor.
Tumors can be benign or malignant. Benign tumorsaren't cancer while malignant
ones are. Cells from malignant tumors can invade nearby tissues. They can also
break away and spread to other parts of the body.

Children can get cancer in the same parts of the body as adults, but there are
differences. Childhood cancers can occur suddenly, without early symptoms, and
have a high rate of cure. The most common children's cancer is leukemia. Other
cancers that affect children include brain tumors, lymphoma, and soft tissue
sarcoma.

Symptoms and treatment depend on the cancer type and how advanced it is.
Treatments include surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, stem cell
transplants, and/or targeted therapy. Targeted therapy uses drugs or other
substances that attack specific cancer cells with less harm to normal cells.

NIH: National Cancer Institute

## Start Here

    * Cancer in Children (American Cancer Society)
    * Cancer in Children and Adolescents ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Childhood Cancer (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Children with Cancer: A Guide for Parents ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * What Is Cancer? (CureSearch for Children's Cancer)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * How Are Childhood Cancers Found? (American Cancer Society)
    * Stages of Childhood Extracranial Germ Cell Tumors ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Tests and Procedures (CureSearch for Children's Cancer)

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Chemotherapy (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Immunotherapy (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)
    * Radiation Therapy (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Side Effects of Chemotherapy and Radiation (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)
    * Steroids for Treating Cancer (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Treatment Option Overview (Unusual Cancers of Childhood) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Treatment Options for Childhood Extracranial Germ Cell Tumors ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Living With

    * Coping with Cosmetic Effects of Cancer Treatment (Nemours Foundation)
    * If Your Child Is Diagnosed With Cancer (American Cancer Society)
    * Nutrition for Children with Cancer (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * Nutritional Needs for Kids with Cancer (Nemours Foundation)
    * Returning to School After Cancer Treatment (American Cancer Society)
    * Support for Families When a Child Has Cancer (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Survivorship Care for Children ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Anxiety Around Medical Procedures (CureSearch for Children's Cancer)
    * Effects of Cancer Treatment on Fertility (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)
    * Late Effects of Treatment for Childhood Cancer (PDQ) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Relapse or Recurrence (CureSearch for Children's Cancer)

## Specifics

    * General Information about Childhood Extracranial Germ Cell Tumors ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Other Rare Unusual Cancers of Childhood ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Pancreatic Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center)
    * Unusual Cancers of the Abdomen ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Unusual Cancers of the Chest ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Unusual Cancers of the Head and Neck ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Unusual Cancers of the Reproductive and Urinary Systems ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * What Are the Most Common Types of Childhood Cancers? (American Cancer Society)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: mosaic variegated aneuploidy syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Videos and Tutorials

    * Fertility Preservation for Children Diagnosed with Cancer ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Oncofertility Consortium)

## Statistics and Research

    * Childhood Cancer Statistics (CureSearch for Children's Cancer)
    * Childhood Cancer Survivor Study: An Overview ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Key Statistics for Childhood Cancers (American Cancer Society)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Cancer in Children ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Some Cancer Chemotherapy (CH) Agents May Be Associated With Tooth Agenesis,...
    * Article: Progress toward liquid biopsies in pediatric solid tumors.
    * Article: Compare and contrast: pediatric cancer versus adult malignancies.
    * Cancer in Children -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Dictionary of Cancer Terms ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Find an Expert

    * American Cancer Society
    * Children's Oncology Group Cancer Center Locations (Children's Oncology Group)
    * Find a Cancer Doctor (American Society of Clinical Oncology)
    * National Cancer Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
    * NCI Designated Cancer Centers ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Organizations That Offer Support Services ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Children

    * Chemotherapy (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * What Is Cancer? (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

    * Adolescents and Young Adults with Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Cancer Basics (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Chemotherapy (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Dealing with Cancer (Nemours Foundation)
    * Radiation Therapy (Nemours Foundation)

## Patient Handouts

    * A guide to help children understand cancer (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * After chemotherapy - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Eating extra calories when you are sick - children (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Questions to ask your child's doctor (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Cancer in Children](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CancerinChildren.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * A guide to help children understand cancer
    * After chemotherapy - discharge
    * Children's cancer centers
    * Eating extra calories when you are sick - children
    * Getting support when your child has cancer
    * Helping your child understand a cancer diagnosis
    * How childhood cancers are different from adult cancers
    * Questions to ask your child's doctor
    * Rhabdomyosarcoma
    * Treatment for childhood cancer -- long-term risks
    * When your child's treatment stops working

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

    * Childhood Brain Tumors
    * Childhood Leukemia
    * Neuroblastoma
    * Wilms Tumor

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Cancer in Children is the
National Cancer Institute

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 13 January 2020 Topic last reviewed: 18 May 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

