Link: https://medlineplus.gov/toothdecay.html    
                                Description: You call it a cavity. Your dentist calls it tooth decay or dental caries. They&#39;re all names for a hole in your tooth. Find out how to prevent it.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Tooth Decay

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/toothdecay.html

#  Tooth Decay

Also called: Cavities, Dental caries

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Older Adults
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is tooth decay?

Tooth decay is damage to a tooth's surface, or enamel. It happens when
bacteria in your mouth make acids that attack the enamel. Tooth decay can lead
to cavities (dental caries), which are holes in your teeth. If tooth decay is
not treated, it can cause pain, infection, and even tooth loss.

### What causes tooth decay?

Our mouths are full of bacteria. Some bacteria are helpful. But some can be
harmful, including the ones that play a role in tooth decay. These bacteria
combine with food to form a soft, sticky film called plaque. The bacteria in
plaque use the sugar and starch in what you eat and drink to make acids. The
acids begin to eat away at the minerals on your enamel. Over time, the plaque
can harden into tartar. Besides damaging your teeth, plaque and tartar can
also irritate your gums and cause gum disease.

You get fluoride from toothpaste, water, and other sources. This fluoride,
along with your salvia, helps the enamel repair itself by replacing the
minerals. Your teeth go through this natural process of losing minerals and
regaining minerals all day long. But if you don't take care of your teeth
and/or you eat and drink lots of sugary or starchy things, your enamel will
keep losing minerals. This leads to tooth decay.

A white spot may appear where minerals have been lost. This is an early sign
of tooth decay. You may be able to stop or reverse the decay at this point.
Your enamel can still repair itself, if you take better care of your teeth and
limit sugary/starchy foods and drinks.

But if the tooth decay process continues, more minerals are lost. Over time,
the enamel is weakened and destroyed, forming a cavity. A cavity is a hole in
your tooth. It is permanent damage that a dentist has to repair with a
filling.

### Who is at risk for tooth decay?

The main risk factors for tooth decay are not taking care of your teeth and
having too many sugary or starchy foods and drinks.

Some people have a higher risk of tooth decay, including people who

    * Don't have enough saliva, because of medicines, certain diseases, or some cancer treatments
    * Don't get enough fluoride
    * Are very young. Babies and toddlers who drink from bottles are at risk, especially if they are given juice or get bottles at bedtime. This exposes their teeth to sugars for long periods of time.
    * Are older. Many older adults have receding gums and more wear on their teeth. These raise the risk of decay on the exposed root surfaces of their teeth.

### What are the symptoms of tooth decay and cavities?

In early tooth decay, you usually don't have symptoms. As tooth decay gets
worse, it can cause

    * A toothache (tooth pain)
    * Tooth sensitivity to sweets, hot, or cold
    * White or brown stains on the surface of a tooth
    * A cavity
    * An infection, which can lead to an abscess (pocket of pus) forming. The abscess can cause pain, facial swelling, and fever.

### How are tooth decay and cavities diagnosed?

Dentists usually find tooth decay and cavities by looking at your teeth and
probing them with dental instruments. Your dentist will also ask if you have
any symptoms. Sometimes you may need a dental x-ray.

### What are the treatments for tooth decay and cavities?

There are several treatments for tooth decay and cavities. Which treatment you
get depends on how bad the problem is:

    * **Fluoride treatments.** If you have early tooth decay, a fluoride treatment can help the enamel to repair itself.
    * **Fillings.** If you have a typical cavity, your dentist will remove the decayed tooth tissue and then restore the tooth by filling it with a filling material.
    * **Root canal.** If the damage to the tooth and/or an infection spreads to the pulp (inside of the tooth), you might need a root canal. Your dentist will remove the decayed pulp and clean inside the tooth and root. The next step is to fill the tooth with a temporary filling. Then you will need to come back to get a permanent filling or a crown (a cover on the tooth).
    * **Extraction (pulling the tooth).** In the most severe cases, when the damage to the pulp cannot be fixed, your dentist may pull the tooth. Your dentist will suggest that you get a bridge or implant to replace the missing tooth. Otherwise, the teeth next to the gap may move over and change your bite.

### Can tooth decay be prevented?

There are steps that you can take to prevent tooth decay:

    * Make sure that you get enough fluoride by 
      * Brushing with a fluoride toothpaste
      * Drinking tap water with fluoride. Most bottled water does not contain fluoride.
      * Using fluoride mouth rinse
    * Practice good oral health by brushing your teeth twice a day with a fluoride toothpaste and regularly flossing your teeth
    * Make smart food choices by limiting foods and drinks that are high in sugars and starches. Eat nutritious, balanced meals and limit snacking.
    * Do not use tobacco products, including smokeless tobacco. If you currently use tobacco, consider quitting.
    * See a dentist for regular check-ups and professional cleanings
    * Make sure that your children get sealants on their teeth. Dental sealants are thin plastic coatings that protect the chewing surfaces of the back teeth. Children should get sealants on their back teeth as soon as they come in, before decay can attack the teeth.

NIH: National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research

## Start Here

    * Cavities/Tooth Decay (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Dental Exam ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Fluoridation Basics (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Other Fluoride Products (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Plaque: What It Is and How to Get Rid of It ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research) \- PDF

## Treatments and Therapies

    * About Dental Amalgam Fillings (Food and Drug Administration)

## Related Issues

    * Bottled Water and Fluoride (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Fluoridated Water ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Private Well Water and Fluoride (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Story of Fluoridation ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research)

## Specifics

    * Toothache: First Aid (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Statistics and Research

    * Dental Caries (Tooth Decay) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research)
    * Dental Sealants ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research)
    * Dental Sealants Prevent Cavities (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Mouth Microbes: The Helpful and the Harmful ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Dental Caries ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Dental Plaque ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Pit and Fissure Sealants ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Autism spectrum disorders and oral health status: review of the literature.
    * Article: Comparison of the effectiveness of Bach flower therapy and music therapy...
    * Article: Follow-up of flowable resin composites performed with a universal adhesive system...
    * Tooth Decay -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Glossary of Dental Terms (Academy of General Dentistry)
    * Oral Health Glossary (Academy of General Dentistry)

## Find an Expert

    * Find a Dentist (Academy of General Dentistry)
    * National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Children

    * Dental Fluorosis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Fluoride and Water (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)
    * How to Prevent Tooth Decay in Your Baby (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish
    * Infant Formula and Fluorosis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Preventing Dental Caries in Children from Birth Through Age Five Years (U.S. Preventive Services Task Force) \- PDF
    * Seal Out Tooth Decay ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research)
    * Tooth Decay Process: How to Reverse It and Avoid a Cavity ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research) Also in Spanish
    * What's a Cavity? (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Older Adults

    * Cavities (Merck & Co., Inc.) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Dental cavities (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Plaque: What It Is and How to Get Rid of It ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research) \- PDF
    * Seal Out Tooth Decay: A Fact Sheet for Parents ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Tooth decay -- early childhood (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Toothaches (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Tooth Decay](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ToothDecay.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Dental cavities
    * Dental plaque identification at home
    * Dental sealants
    * Fluoride in diet
    * Tooth decay -- early childhood
    * Toothaches

## Related Health Topics

    * Child Dental Health
    * Dental Health
    * Tooth Disorders

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Tooth Decay is the National
Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Tooth Decay_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 30 September 2019 Topic last reviewed: 18 April 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

