Link: https://medlineplus.gov/birdflu.html    
                                Description: The bird flu (also known as influenza A or the avian flu) primarily infects birds, but can pose health risks to people. Learn how to avoid this flu.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Bird Flu

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/birdflu.html

#  Bird Flu

Also called: Avian flu, Avian influenza, H5N1, H7N9

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Prevention and Risk Factors

### Learn More

  * Related Issues
  * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

  * No links available

### Research

  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Birds, just like people, get the flu. Bird flu viruses infect birds, including
chickens, other poultry, and wild birds such as ducks. Usually bird flu
viruses only infect other birds. It is rare for people to get infected with
bird flu viruses, but it can happen. Two types, H5N1 and H7N9, have infected
some people during outbreaks in Asia, Africa, the Pacific, the Middle East,
and parts of Europe. There have also been some rare cases of other types of
bird flu affecting people in the United States.

Most of the people who get bird flu have had close contact with infected birds
or with surfaces that have been contaminated by the birds' saliva, mucous, or
droppings. It is also possible to get it by breathing in droplets or dust that
contain the virus. Rarely, the virus has spread from one person to another. It
may also be possible to catch bird flu by eating poultry or eggs that are not
well cooked.

Bird flu illness in people can range from mild to severe. Often, the symptoms
are similar to the seasonal flu, such as

  * Fever
  * Cough
  * Sore throat
  * Runny or stuffy nose
  * Muscle or body aches
  * Fatigue
  * Headaches
  * Eye redness (or conjunctivitis)
  * Difficulty breathing

In some cases, bird flu can cause serious complications and death. As with
seasonal flu, some people are at higher risk for serious illness. They include
pregnant women, people with weakened immune systems, and adults 65 and older.

Treatment with antiviral medicines may make the illness less severe. They may
also help prevent the flu in people who were exposed to it. There is currently
no vaccine available to the public. The government does have a supply of a
vaccine for one type of H5N1 bird flu virus and could distribute it if there
was an outbreak that spread easily from person to person.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Start Here

  * Avian And Other Zoonotic Influenza (World Health Organization) Also in Spanish
  * Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
  * Bird Flu (Avian Influenza) (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

  * Prevention and Treatment of Avian Influenza A Viruses in People (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

  * Pandemic Flu (Department of Health and Human Services) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

  * Avian Flu (H7N9) in China (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Avian Influenza A (H7N9) Virus (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
  * Avian Influenza A Virus Infections in Humans (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Avian Influenza in Birds (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Human Infection with Avian Influenza A(H7N9) Virus - China (World Health Organization) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Influenza in Birds ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Emerging from the Shadow of Hemagglutinin: Neuraminidase Is an Important Target...
  * Article: Insights into species-specific regulation of ANP32A on the mammalian-restricted influenza virus...
  * Article: Biochemistry and computer generated graph comparison of the structural and nonstructural...
  * Bird Flu -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

  * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
  * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
  * World Health Organization

## Patient Handouts

  * Avian influenza (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Bird Flu](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Birdflu.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Avian influenza

## Related Health Topics

  * Animal Diseases and Your Health
  * Flu

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Bird Flu is the National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 15 February 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

