Link: https://medlineplus.gov/tanning.html    
                                Description: Did you know that a tan is actually sun damage? Learn about the dangers of both indoor and outdoor tanning, and how you can protect your skin.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Tanning

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/tanning.html

#  Tanning

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * No links available

### For You

    * Teenagers
    * Women

## Summary

### Can a tan be healthy?

Some people think that tanning gives them a healthy glow. But tanning, either
outdoors or indoors with a tanning bed, is not healthy at all. It exposes you
to harmful rays and puts you at risk for health problems such as melanoma and
other skin cancers.

### What are UV rays, and how do they affect the skin?

Sunlight travels to earth as a mixture of both visible and invisible rays.
Some of the rays are harmless to people. But one kind, ultraviolet (UV) rays,
can cause problems. They are a form of radiation. UV rays do help your body
make vitamin D, but too much exposure damages your skin. Most people can get
the vitamin D that they need with only about 5 to 15 minutes of sun exposure
two to three times a week.

There are three types of UV rays. Two of them, UVA and UVB, can reach the
earth's surface and affect your skin. Using a tanning bed also exposes you to
UVA and UVB.

UVB rays can cause sunburn. UVA rays can travel more deeply into the skin than
UVB rays. When your skin is exposed to UVA, it tries to protect itself from
further damage. It does this by making more melanin, which is the skin pigment
that makes your skin darker. That's what gives you a tan. This means that your
tan is a sign of skin damage.

### What are the health risks of tanning?

Since tanning means overexposure to UV rays, it can damage your skin and cause
health problems such as

    * **Premature skin aging** , which can cause your skin to become thickened, leathery, and wrinkled. You may also have dark spots on your skin. These happen because long-term exposure to UV rays makes your skin less elastic. The more sun exposure you have, the earlier your skin ages.
    * **Skin cancers** , including melanoma. This can happen because the UV light damages the DNA of your skin cells and interferes with your body's ability to fight the cancer.
    * **Actinic keratosis** , a thick, scaly patch of skin that usually forms on areas exposed to the sun, such as the face, scalp, back of the hands, or chest. It can eventually become cancerous.
    * **Eye damage** , including cataracts and photokeratitis (snow blindness)
    * **A weakened immune system** , which can increase your sensitivity to sunlight, decrease the effects of immunizations, and cause you to have reactions to certain medicines.

### What should I do to protect my skin from UV rays?

    * **Limit sun exposure**. Try to stay out of the sun between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m., when its rays are strongest. But remember that you still get sun exposure when you are outside on cloudy days or are in the shade.
    * **Use sunscreen** with sun protective factor (SPF) 15 or higher. It should also be a broad spectrum sunscreen, which means that it gives you both UVA and UVB protection. If you have very light skin, use SPF 30 or higher. Apply sunscreen 20-30 minutes before going outside, and reapply it at least every 2 hours.
    * **Wear sunglasses** that block both UVA and UVB rays. Wrap-around sunglasses work best because they block UV rays from sneaking in from the side.
    * **Wear a hat**. You can get the best protection with a wide-brimmed hat that is made out of a tightly woven fabric, such as canvas.
    * **Wear protective clothing** such as long-sleeved shirts and long pants and skirts. Clothes made from tightly woven fabric offer the best protection.

It is also important to check your skin once a month. If you do see any new or
changing spots or moles, go see your health care provider.

### Isn't indoor tanning safer than tanning in the sun?

Indoor tanning is not better than tanning in the sun; it also exposes you to
UV rays and damages your skin. Tanning beds use UVA light, so they expose you
to a higher concentration of UVA rays than you would get by tanning in the
sun. Tanning lights also expose you to some UVB rays.

Some people think that getting a "base tan" in a tanning salon can protect you
when you go in the sun. But a "base tan" causes damage to your skin and will
not prevent you from getting sunburn when you go outside.

Indoor tanning is particularly dangerous for younger people. You have a higher
risk of melanoma if you started doing indoor tanning while you were a teen or
young adult.

Some research shows that frequent tanning may even be addictive. This can be
dangerous because the more often you tan, the more damage you do to your skin.

### Are there safer ways to look tan?

There are other ways to look tan, but they are not all safe:

    * **Tanning pills** have a color additive that turns your skin orange after you take them. But they can be dangerous and are not approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
    * **Sunless tanners** have no known risk for skin cancer, but you do have to be careful. Most spray tans, lotions, and gels use DHA, a color additive that makes your skin look tan. DHA is considered safe for use on the outside of your body by the FDA. You need to make sure it doesn't get into your nose, eyes, or mouth. If you use a spray tan, be careful not to breathe in the spray. Also, remember that these "tans" do not protect you from UV rays when you go outside.

## Start Here

    * Risks of Tanning (Food and Drug Administration)

## Related Issues

    * FDA Proposes New Safety Measures for Indoor Tanning Devices: The Facts (Food and Drug Administration) Also in Spanish
    * Getting a Base Tan: Does it Prevent Sunburn? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Sunless Tanning: What You Need to Know (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Tanning Pills and Other Tanning Products (American Cancer Society)

## Specifics

    * Dangers of Indoor Tanning (American Academy of Dermatology)
    * Dangers of Tanning Beds (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Indoor Tanning (Federal Trade Commission)
    * Indoor Tanning Is Not Safe (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Indoor Tanning: The Risks of Ultraviolet Rays (Food and Drug Administration) Also in Spanish
    * Tanning Products (Food and Drug Administration)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: melanoma ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Indoor Tanning ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Topical treatment strategies to manipulate human skin pigmentation.
    * Article: Association between financial links to indoor tanning industry and conclusions of...
    * Article: Sunbeds and Melanoma Risk: Many Open Questions, Not Yet Time to...
    * Tanning -- see more articles

## Teenagers

    * Indoor Tanning (For Teens) (Nemours Foundation)
    * Tanning (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health)
    * Tanning (For Teens) (Nemours Foundation)

## Women

    * Self-Tanners, Tanning Pills, Tanning Booths, and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Tanning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Tanning.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## Related Health Topics

    * Melanoma
    * Skin Cancer
    * Sun Exposure

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Tanning is the National Cancer
Institute

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 30 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 27 June 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

