Link: https://medlineplus.gov/teendepression.html    
                                Description: More and more teens in the U.S. have depression. It is a serious medical illness that causes feelings of sadness, hopelessness, and frustration that do not go away. Learn about diagnosis and treatment    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Teen Depression

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/teendepression.html

#  Teen Depression

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is depression in teens?

Teen depression is a serious medical illness. It's more than just a feeling of
being sad or "blue" for a few days. It is an intense feeling of sadness,
hopelessness, and anger or frustration that lasts much longer. These feelings
make it hard for you to function normally and do your usual activities. You
may also have trouble focusing and have no motivation or energy. Depression
can make you feel like it is hard to enjoy life or even get through the day.

### What causes depression in teens?

Many factors may play a role in depression, including

    * **Genetics.** Depression can run in families.
    * **Brain biology and chemistry.**
    * **Hormones.** Hormone changes can contribute to depression.
    * **Stressful childhood events** such as trauma, the death of a loved one, bullying, and abuse.

### Which teens are at risk of depression?

Depression can happen at any age, but often begins in the teens or early
adulthood. Certain teens are at higher risk of depression, such as those who

    * Have other mental health conditions, such as anxiety, eating disorders, and substance use
    * Have other diseases, such as diabetes, cancer, and heart disease
    * Have family members with mental illness
    * Have a dysfunctional family/family conflict
    * Have problems with friends or other kids at school
    * Have learning problems or attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
    * Have had trauma in childhood
    * Have low self-esteem, a pessimistic outlook, or poor coping skills
    * Are lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender, especially when their families are not supportive

### What are the symptoms of depression in teens?

If you have depression, you have one or more of these symptoms most of the
time:

    * Sadness
    * Feeling of emptiness
    * Hopelessness
    * Being angry, irritable, or frustrated, even at minor things

You also may also have other symptoms, such as

    * No longer caring about things you used to enjoy
    * Changes in weight - losing weight when you are not dieting or gaining weight from eating too much
    * Changes in sleep - having trouble falling asleep or staying asleep, or sleeping much more than usual
    * Feeling restless or having trouble sitting still
    * Feeling very tired or not having energy
    * Feeling worthless or very guilty
    * Having trouble concentrating, remembering information, or making decisions
    * Thinking about dying or suicide

### How is depression in teens diagnosed?

If you think you might be depressed, tell someone that you trust, such as your

    * Parents or guardian
    * Teacher or counselor
    * Doctor

The next step is to see your doctor for a checkup. Your doctor can first make
sure that you do not have another health problem that is causing your
depression. To do this, you may have a physical exam and lab tests.

If you don't have another health problem, you will get a psychological
evaluation. Your doctor may do it, or you may be referred to a mental health
professional to get one. You may be asked about things such as

    * Your thoughts and feelings
    * How you are doing at school
    * Any changes in your eating, sleeping, or energy level
    * Whether you are suicidal
    * Whether you use alcohol or drugs

### How is depression in teens treated?

Effective treatments for depression in teens include talk therapy, or a
combination of talk therapy and medicines:

**Talk therapy**

Talk therapy, also called psychotherapy or counseling, can help you understand
and manage your moods and feelings. It involves going to see a therapist, such
as a psychiatrist, a psychologist, a social worker, or counselor. You can talk
out your emotions to someone who understands and supports you. You can also
learn how to stop thinking negatively and start to look at the positives in
life. This will help you build confidence and feel better about yourself.

There are many different types of talk therapy. Certain types have been shown
to help teens deal with depression, including

    * **Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT),** which helps you to identify and change negative and unhelpful thoughts. It also helps you build coping skills and change behavioral patterns.
    * **Interpersonal therapy (IPT),** which focuses on improving your relationships. It helps you understand and work through troubled relationships that may contribute to your depression. IPT may help you change behaviors that are causing problems. You also explore major issues that may add to your depression, such as grief or life changes.

**Medicines**

In some cases, your doctor will suggest medicines along with talk therapy.
There are a few antidepressants that have been widely studied and proven to
help teens. If you are taking medicine for depression, it is important to see
your doctor regularly.

It is also important to know that it will take some time for you to get relief
from antidepressants:

    * It can take 3 to 4 weeks until an antidepressant takes effect
    * You may have to try more than one antidepressant to find one that works for you
    * It can also take some time to find the right dose of an antidepressant

In some cases, teenagers may have an increase in suicidal thoughts or behavior
when taking antidepressants. This risk is higher in the first few weeks after
starting the medicine and when the dose is changed. **Make sure to tell your
parents or guardian if you start feeling worse or have thoughts of hurting
yourself.**

You should not stop taking the antidepressants on your own. You need to work
with your doctor to slowly and safely decrease the dose before you stop.

**Programs for severe depression**

Some teens who have severe depression or are at risk of hurting themselves may
need more intensive treatment. They may go into a psychiatric hospital or do a
day program. Both offer counseling, group discussions, and activities with
mental health professionals and other patients. Day programs may be full-day
or half-day, and they often last for several weeks.

## Start Here

    * Teen Depression ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Mental Health) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Depression Screening ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Get Your Teen Screened for Depression (Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotion)

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Antidepressants for Children and Teens (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Going to a Therapist (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Psychotherapies for Children and Adolescents (American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * About Teen Suicide (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * How Can I Help a Friend Who Cuts? (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * How Can I Stop Cutting? (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Self-Injury in Adolescents (American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry) Also in Spanish
    * Teen Suicide (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * College Depression: What Parents Need to Know (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Depression (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Depression (For Teens) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Depression in Teens (Mental Health America)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Teen Depression ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Symptom clusters in adolescent depression and differential response to treatment: a...
    * Article: Efficacy of guided internet-assisted intervention on depression reduction among educational technology...
    * Article: Effects of Topper Training on psychosocial problems, self-esteem, and peer victimisation...
    * Teen Depression -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry
    * Behavioral Health Treatment Services Locator (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration)
    * KidsHealth (Nemours Foundation)
    * National Institute of Mental Health ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
    * National Suicide Prevention Lifeline (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration) Also in Spanish
    * Psychologist Locator (American Psychological Association)

## Patient Handouts

    * Helping your teen with depression (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Managing your depression - teens (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Recognizing teen depression (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TeenDepression.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Helping your teen with depression
    * Managing your depression - teens
    * Recognizing teen depression

## Related Health Topics

    * Antidepressants
    * Depression
    * Seasonal Affective Disorder
    * Self-Harm
    * Suicide
    * Teen Mental Health

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Teen Depression is the National
Institute of Mental Health

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 3 April 2020 Topic last reviewed: 3 May 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

