Link: https://medlineplus.gov/headache.html    
                                Description: Nearly everyone has had a headache, the most common form of pain. Learn the different types, the different symptoms of, and when to see a doctor.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Headache

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/headache.html

#  Headache

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Symptoms
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Women
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Almost everyone has had a headache. Headache is the most common form of pain.
It's a major reason people miss days at work or school or visit the doctor.

The most common type of headache is a tension headache. Tension headaches are
due to tight muscles in your shoulders, neck, scalp and jaw. They are often
related to stress, depression or anxiety. You are more likely to get tension
headaches if you work too much, don't get enough sleep, miss meals, or use
alcohol.

Other common types of headaches include migraines, cluster headaches, and
sinus headaches. Most people can feel much better by making lifestyle changes,
learning ways to relax and taking pain relievers.

Not all headaches require a doctor's attention. But sometimes headaches warn
of a more serious disorder. Let your health care provider know if you have
sudden, severe headaches. Get medical help right away if you have a headache
after a blow to your head, or if you have a headache along with a stiff neck,
fever, confusion, loss of consciousness, or pain in the eye or ear.

NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Start Here

    * Headache (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Headache ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) \- Short Summary
    * Headache: Hope through Research ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) Also in Spanish
    * Headaches (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish

## Symptoms

    * Headaches: Treatment Depends on Your Diagnosis and Symptoms (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Do I need an imaging study for my headache? (American Migraine Foundation)
    * Headaches (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * When to Go to the Emergency Room for a Headache or Migraine (American Migraine Foundation)

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Headaches: Reduce Stress to Prevent the Pain (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Acute Therapy: Why Not Over-The-Counter or Other Nonspecific Options? (American Migraine Foundation)
    * Headaches: In Depth ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)

## Living With

    * Headache Hygiene -- What Is It? (American Migraine Foundation)
    * Headache Sufferers' Diet (National Headache Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Low Tyramine Headache Diet (National Headache Foundation) \- PDF
    * Tension-Type Headaches: Self-Care Measures for Relief (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Allergies and Headache (National Headache Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Altitude, Acute Mountain Sickness and Headache (American Migraine Foundation)
    * Chronic Daily Headaches (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Cluster Headache (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Cough Headaches (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Exercise Headaches (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * External Compression Headaches (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Hemicrania Continua ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Ice Cream Headaches (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Intractable Headache - The Pain in Your Head that Just Won't Quit (American Migraine Foundation)
    * Medication Overuse Headaches (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Nighttime Headaches: How Can I Get Relief? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Occipital Neuralgia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Paroxysmal Hemicrania ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Secondary Headaches (American Migraine Foundation)
    * Sex Headaches (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Sinus Headaches (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Spinal Headaches (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * SUNCT Headache (Short-Lasting, Unilateral, Neuralgiform with Conjunctival Injection and Tearing) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Tension Headache (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Thunderclap Headaches (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Cluster Headache ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Headache ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Headache Disorders ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Tension Headache ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Tension-Type Headache ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Effects of preemptive intravenous paracetamol and ibuprofen on headache and myalgia...
    * Article: Exercise, headache, and factors associated with headache in chronic whiplash: Analysis...
    * Article: Association of diet and headache.
    * Headache -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Find a Doctor or Treatment (American Migraine Foundation)
    * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Children

    * Headaches (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Headaches in Children (American Association for Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus)
    * Headaches in Children (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Oooh, Your Aching Head! (Nemours Foundation)

## Teenagers

    * Headaches (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Women

    * Headaches and Hormones: What's the Connection? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Headaches during Pregnancy: What's the Best Treatment? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Cluster headache (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Headache (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Headaches -- danger signs (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Managing tension headaches at home (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Tension headache (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Headache](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Headache3.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Cluster headache
    * Headache
    * Headache - what to ask your doctor
    * Headaches -- danger signs
    * Managing tension headaches at home
    * Tension headache

## Related Health Topics

    * Migraine

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Headache is the National
Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Headache_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 30 January 2020 Topic last reviewed: 20 April 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

