Link: https://medlineplus.gov/taysachsdisease.html    
                                Description: Tay-Sachs disease is a rare genetic disorder. It causes too much of a fatty substance to build up in the brain, which destroys nerve cells.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Tay-Sachs Disease

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/taysachsdisease.html

#  Tay-Sachs Disease

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Tay-Sachs disease is a rare, inherited disease. It is a type of lipid
metabolism disorder. It causes too much of a fatty substance to build up in
the brain. This buildup destroys nerve cells, causing mental and physical
problems. .

Infants with Tay-Sachs disease appear to develop normally for the first few
months of life. Then mental and physical abilities decline. The child becomes
blind, deaf, and unable to swallow. Muscles begin to waste away and paralysis
sets in. Even with the best of care, children with Tay-Sachs disease usually
die by age 4.

The cause is a gene mutation which is most common in Eastern European
Ashkenazi Jews. To get the disease, both parents must have the gene. If they
do, there is a 25% chance of the child having the disease. A blood test and
prenatal tests can check for the gene or the disease.

There is no cure. Medicines and good nutrition can help some symptoms. Some
children need feeding tubes.

NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Start Here

    * About Tay-Sachs Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Human Genome Research Institute)
    * Tay-Sachs Disease (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Tay-Sachs Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Genetic Testing: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Genetic Counseling: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Lipid Storage Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Lipid Storage Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Sandhoff Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: GM2-gangliosidosis, AB variant ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Sandhoff disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Tay-Sachs disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Videos and Tutorials

    * What Is Tay-Sachs Disease? (Dolan DNA Learning Center)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Tay-Sachs Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Unusual case of Juvenile Tay-Sachs disease.
    * Article: Presynaptic Dysfunction in Neurons Derived from Tay-Sachs iPSCs.
    * Article: Early juvenile Tay-Sachs disease with atypical symptoms.
    * Tay-Sachs Disease -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Tay-Sachs disease (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Tay-Sachs Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TaySachsDisease.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Tay-Sachs disease

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Tay-Sachs Disease is the National
Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 April 2019 Topic last reviewed: 4 August 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

