Link: https://medlineplus.gov/pulmonaryrehabilitation.html    
                                Description: Pulmonary Rehabilitation is a medically supervised program to help people with chronic breathing problems, like COPD or cystic fibrosis. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Pulmonary Rehabilitation

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/pulmonaryrehabilitation.html

#  Pulmonary Rehabilitation

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is pulmonary rehabilitation?

Pulmonary rehabilitation, also known as pulmonary rehab or PR, is a program
for people who have chronic (ongoing) breathing problems. It can help improve
your ability to function and quality of life. PR does not replace your medical
treatment. Instead, you use them together.

PR is often an outpatient program that you do in a hospital or clinic. Some
people have PR in their homes. You work with a team of health care providers
to find ways to lessen your symptoms, increase your ability to exercise, and
make it easier to do your daily activities.

### Who needs pulmonary rehabilitation?

Your health care provider may recommend pulmonary rehabilitation (PR) if you
have a chronic lung disease or another condition that makes it hard for you to
breathe and limits your activities. For example, PR may help you if you

    * Have COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease). The two main types are emphysema and chronic bronchitis. In COPD, your airways (tubes that carry air in and out of your lungs) are partially blocked. This makes it hard to get air in and out.
    * Have an interstitial lung disease such as sarcoidosis and pulmonary fibrosis. These diseases cause scarring of the lungs over time. This makes it hard to get enough oxygen.
    * Have cystic fibrosis (CF). CF is an inherited disease that causes thick, sticky mucus to collect in the lungs and block the airways.
    * Need lung surgery. You may have PR before and after lung surgery to help you prepare for and recover from the surgery.
    * Have a muscle-wasting disorder that affects the muscles used for breathing. An example is muscular dystrophy.

PR works best if you start it before your disease is severe. However, even
people who have advanced lung disease can benefit from PR.

### What does pulmonary rehabilitation include?

When you first start pulmonary rehabilitation (PR), your team of health care
providers will want to learn more about your health. You will have lung
function, exercise, and possibly blood tests. Your team will go over your
medical history and current treatments. They may check on your mental health
and ask about your diet. Then they will work together to create a plan that is
right for you. It may include

    * **Exercise training.** Your team will come up with an exercise plan to improve your endurance and muscle strength. You will likely have exercises for both your arms and legs. You might use a treadmill, stationary bike, or weights. You may need to start slowly and increase your exercise as you get stronger.
    * **Nutritional counseling.** Being either overweight or underweight can affect your breathing. A nutritious eating plan can help you work towards a healthy weight.
    * **Education about your disease and how to manage it.** This includes learning how to avoid situations that make your symptoms worse, how to avoid infections, and how/when to take your medicines.
    * **Techniques you can use to save your energy.** Your team may teach you easier ways to do daily tasks. For example, you may learn ways to avoid reaching, lifting, or bending. Those movements make it harder to breathe, since they use up energy and make you tighten your abdominal muscles. You may also learn how to better deal with stress, since stress can also take up energy and affect your breathing.
    * **Breathing strategies.** You will learn techniques to improve your breathing. These techniques may increase your oxygen levels, decrease how often you take breaths, and keep your airways open longer.
    * **Psychological counseling and/or group support.** It can feel scary to have trouble breathing. If you have a chronic lung disease, you are more likely to have depression, anxiety, or other emotional problems. Many PR programs include counseling and/or support groups. If not, your PR team may be able to refer you to an organization that offers them.
 ******

NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

**

## Start Here

    * Pulmonary Rehabilitation ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)
    * Pulmonary Rehabilitation (American Thoracic Society) \- PDF

## Related Issues

    * Breathing and Relaxation (National Jewish Health)
    * Exercises (National Jewish Health)
    * Oxygen Therapy: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Basics of Postural Drainage and Percussion (Cystic Fibrosis Foundation)
    * Nutrition and COPD (American Lung Association)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Lung Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Pulmonary rehabilitation for people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: A protocol...
    * Article: Preoperative high-intensity interval training is effective and safe in deconditioned patients...
    * Article: Measurement of Key Constructs in a Holistic Framework for Assessing Self-Management...
    * Pulmonary Rehabilitation -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * How the Lungs Work ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Find an Expert

    * American Lung Association
    * National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Patient Handouts

    * Postural drainage (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Pulmonary
Rehabilitation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PulmonaryRehabilitation.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Postural drainage

## Related Health Topics

    * Lung Diseases

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Pulmonary Rehabilitation is the
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 27 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 13 July 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

