Link: https://medlineplus.gov/inhalants.html    
                                Description: Read more about the short and long-term effects of inhalants, which can be just as bad as alcohol and drug abuse.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Inhalants

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/inhalants.html

#  Inhalants

Also called: Huffing

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here

### Learn More

    * Related Issues

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What are inhalants?

Inhalants are substances that people inhale (breathe in) to get high. There
are other substances that people might inhale, such as alcohol. But those are
not called inhalants, because they can also be used another way. Inhalants are
the substances that you can misuse _only_ by inhaling them.

Using inhalants to try to get high, even once, can be very harmful to your
brain and body. It can even lead to death.

### What are the types of inhalants?

Inhalants are often products that are easily bought and can be found in the
home or workplace. They contain dangerous substances that have psychoactive
(mind-altering) properties when they are inhaled. There are four main types of
inhalants are

    * **Solvents** , which are liquids that become gas at room temperature. They include paint thinner, nail polish remover, gasoline, and glue.
    * **Aerosol sprays** , such as spray paint, deodorant spray, and vegetable oil sprays
    * **Gases** , including gas from lighters, whipped cream dispensers, and laughing gas
    * **Nitrites** (prescription medicines for chest pain)

Some of the common slang terms for various inhalants include

    * Bold
    * Laughing gas
    * Poppers
    * Rush
    * Snappers
    * Whippets

### How do people use inhalants?

People who use inhalants breathe in the fumes through their nose or mouth,
usually by "sniffing," "snorting," "bagging," or "huffing." It's called
different names depending on the substance and equipment used.

The high that inhalants produce usually lasts just a few minutes, so people
often try to make it last by inhaling them again and again over several hours.

### Who uses inhalants?

Inhalants are mostly used by young kids and teens. They often try inhalants
before they try other substances because inhalants are easier to get.

### What are the signs that someone is using inhalants?

Signs that someone is using inhalants include

    * Chemical odors on breath or clothing
    * Paint or other stains on face, hands, or clothes
    * Hidden empty spray paint or solvent containers and chemical-soaked rags or clothing
    * Red or runny eyes or nose
    * Drunk or disoriented appearance
    * Slurred speech
    * Nausea or loss of appetite
    * Inattentiveness, lack of coordination, irritability, and depression

### What are the health effects of using inhalants?

Most inhalants affect your central nervous system and slow down brain
activity. Inhalants can cause both short-term and long-term health effects:

    * **Short-term health effects** include slurred or distorted speech, lack of coordination, euphoria (feeling "high"), dizziness, and hallucinations
    * **Long-term health effects** may include liver and kidney damage, loss of coordination, limb spasms, delayed behavioral development, and brain damage

Using inhalants, even once, could lead to an overdose. This can cause you to
have seizures or your heart to stop. It can also be deadly.

### Are inhalants addictive?

Addiction to inhalants is rare, but it can happen if you use them repeatedly.
Stopping them can cause withdrawal symptoms, such as nausea, sweating,
problems sleeping, and mood changes.

Behavioral therapy may help people who are addicted to inhalants.

### Can inhalant misuse be prevented?

To try to prevent inhalant abuse, parents should talk to their children about
it. They should discuss the dangers of inhalants and how to deal with peer
pressure if someone asks them to try it.

NIH: National Institute on Drug Abuse

## Start Here

    * Inhalant Abuse (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Inhalants ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse)
    * Inhalants ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Drug Facts Chat Day: Inhalants ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse)

## Statistics and Research

    * Research Reports: Inhalants ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Helium poisoning: new procedure for sampling and analysis.
    * Article: Cardiac arrest by inhalation of deodorant spray.
    * Article: Volatile substance related deaths: a simple and safe autopsy procedure for...
    * Inhalants -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Drug Enforcement Administration
    * National Institute on Drug Abuse ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
    * Partnership at Drugfree.org (Partnership for a Drug-Free America)
    * Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration

## Children

    * Parent's Guide to Preventing Inhalant Abuse (Consumer Product Safety Commission)

## Teenagers

    * Inhalant Abuse: Is Your Child at Risk? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Inhalants ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Inhalants ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) \- PDF
    * Substance use -- inhalants (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Inhalants](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Inhalants.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Substance use -- inhalants

## Related Health Topics

    * Club Drugs
    * Drug Use and Addiction

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Inhalants is the National
Institute on Drug Abuse

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 3 April 2020 Topic last reviewed: 21 April 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

