Link: https://medlineplus.gov/howtolowercholesterol.html    
                                Description: Do you have high cholesterol? Learn how you can lower your cholesterol, through diet, exercise, weight management, and if you need them, medicines.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

How to Lower Cholesterol

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/howtolowercholesterol.html

#  How to Lower Cholesterol

## Summary

### What is cholesterol?

Your body needs some cholesterol to work properly. But if you have too much in
your blood, it can stick to the walls of your arteries and narrow or even
block them. This puts you at risk for coronary artery disease and other heart
diseases.

Cholesterol travels through the blood on proteins called lipoproteins. One
type, LDL, is sometimes called the "bad" cholesterol. A high LDL level leads
to a buildup of cholesterol in your arteries. Another type, HDL, is sometimes
called the "good" cholesterol. It carries cholesterol from other parts of your
body back to your liver. Then your liver removes the cholesterol from your
body.

There are steps that you can take to lower your LDL (bad) cholesterol and
raise your HDL (good) cholesterol. By keeping your cholesterol levels in
range, you can lower your risk of heart diseases.

### What are the treatments for high cholesterol?

The main treatments for high cholesterol are lifestyle changes and medicines.

### Lifestyle changes to lower cholesterol

Heart-healthy lifestyle changes that can help you lower or control your
cholesterol include

    * **Heart-healthy eating.** A heart-healthy eating plan limits the amount of saturated and trans fats that you eat. It recommends that you eat and drink only enough calories to stay at a healthy weight and avoid weight gain. It encourages you to choose a variety of nutritious foods, including fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and lean meats. Examples of eating plans that can lower your cholesterol include the Therapeutic Lifestyle Changes diet and the DASH eating plan. 
    * **Weight Management.** If you are overweight, losing weight can help lower your LDL (bad) cholesterol. This is especially important for people with metabolic syndrome. Metabolic syndrome is a group of risk factors that includes high triglyceride levels, low HDL (good) cholesterol levels, and being overweight with a large waist measurement (more than 40 inches for men and more than 35 inches for women).
    * **Physical Activity.** Everyone should get regular physical activity (30 minutes on most, if not all, days).
    * **Managing stress.** Research has shown that chronic stress can sometimes raise your LDL cholesterol and lower your HDL cholesterol.
    * **Quitting smoking.** Quitting smoking can raise your HDL cholesterol. Since HDL helps to remove LDL cholesterol from your arteries, having more HDL can help to lower your LDL cholesterol.

### Medicines to lower cholesterol

For some people, making lifestyle changes alone does not their lower
cholesterol enough. They may also need to take medicines. There are several
types of cholesterol-lowering drugs available. They work in different ways and
can have different side effects. Talk to your health care provider about which
medicine is right for you.

Even if you take medicines to lower your cholesterol, you still need to
continue with lifestyle changes.

### Lipoprotein apheresis to lower cholesterol

Familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) is an inherited form of high cholesterol.
Some people who have FH may get a treatment called lipoprotein apheresis. This
treatment uses a filtering machine to remove LDL cholesterol from the blood.
Then the machine returns the rest of the blood back to the person.

### Supplements to lower cholesterol

Some companies sell supplements that they say can lower cholesterol.
Researchers have studied many of these supplements, including red yeast rice,
flaxseed, and garlic. At this time, there isn't conclusive evidence that any
of them are effective in lowering cholesterol levels. Also, supplements may
cause side effects and interactions with medicines. Always check with your
health care provider before you take any supplements.

## Learn More

    * Being active when you have heart disease (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Cholesterol - what to ask your doctor (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Cholesterol and lifestyle (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Cholesterol Levels ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Give your heart a workout (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Healthy habits for weight loss (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Heart disease - risk factors (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * How to take statins (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Managing your weight with healthy eating (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Smoking - tips on how to quit (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hypercholesterolemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Association Between Genetically Proxied Inhibition of HMG-CoA Reductase and Epithelial Ovarian...
    * Article: PCSK9 inhibitors for treating hypercholesterolemia.
    * Article: Effects of red clover (Trifolium pratense) isoflavones on the lipid profile...
    * How to Lower Cholesterol -- see more articles

## Topic Image

![How To Lower
Cholesterol](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HowToLowerCholesterol.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## Related Health Topics

    * Benefits of Exercise
    * Cholesterol
    * Cholesterol Levels: What You Need to Know
    * Cholesterol Medicines
    * Heart Diseases
    * High Cholesterol in Children and Teens
    * How to Lower Cholesterol with Diet
    * Quitting Smoking
    * Statins
    * Weight Control

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on How to Lower Cholesterol is the
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 27 February 2019 Topic last reviewed: 16 January 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

