Link: https://medlineplus.gov/eyecare.html    
                                Description: Your eyes are an important part of your health. You should get your eyes checked as often as your health care provider recommends it, or if you have any new vision problems. Learn more on how to care     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Eye Care

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/eyecare.html

#  Eye Care

Also called: Eye health, Eye safety

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * No links available

### For You

    * Children
    * Older Adults

## Summary

Your eyes are an important part of your health. Most people rely on their eyes
to see and make sense of the world around them. But some eye diseases can lead
to vision loss, so it is important to identify and treat eye diseases as early
as possible. You should get your eyes checked as often as your health care
provider recommends it, or if you have any new vision problems. And just as it
is important to keep your body healthy, you also need to keep your eyes
healthy.

### Eye Care Tips

There are things you can do to help keep your eyes healthy and make sure you
are seeing your best:

    * **Eat a healthy, balanced diet.** Your diet should include plenty or fruits and vegetables, especially deep yellow and green leafy vegetables. Eating fish high in omega-3 fatty acids, such as salmon, tuna, and halibut can also help your eyes.
    * **Maintain a healthy weight.** Being overweight or having obesity increases your risk of developing diabetes. Having diabetes puts you at higher risk of getting diabetic retinopathy or glaucoma.
    * **Get regular exercise.** Exercise may help to prevent or control diabetes, high blood pressure, and high cholesterol. These diseases can lead to some eye or vision problems. So if you exercise regularly, you can lower your risk of getting these eye and vision problems.
    * **Wear sunglasses.** Sun exposure can damage your eyes and raise your risk of cataracts and age-related macular degeneration. Protect your eyes by using sunglasses that block out 99 to 100 percent of both UV-A and UV-B radiation.
    * **Wear protective eye wear.** To prevent eye injuries, you need eye protection when playing certain sports, working in jobs such as factory work and construction, and doing repairs or projects in your home.
    * **Avoid smoking.** Smoking increases the risk of developing age-related eye diseases such as macular degeneration and cataracts and can damage the optic nerve.
    * **Know your family medical history.** Some eye diseases are inherited, so it is important to find out whether anyone in your family has had them. This can help you determine if you are at higher risk of developing an eye disease.
    * **Know your other risk factors.** As you get older, you are at higher risk of developing age-related eye diseases and conditions. It is important to know you risk factors because you may be able to lower your risk by changing some behaviors.
    * **If you wear contacts, take steps to prevent eye infections.** Wash your hands well before you put in or take out your contact lenses. Also follow the instructions on how to properly clean them, and replace them when needed.
    * **Give your eyes a rest.** If you spend a lot of time using a computer, you can forget to blink your eyes and your eyes can get tired. To reduce eyestrain, try the 20-20-20 rule: Every 20 minutes, look away about 20 feet in front of you for 20 seconds.

### Eye Tests and Exams

Everyone needs to have their eyesight tested to check for vision and eye
problems. Children usually have vision screening in school or at their health
care provider's office during a checkup. Adults may also get vision screenings
during their checkups. But many adults need more than a vision screening. They
need a comprehensive dilated eye exam.

Getting comprehensive dilated eye exams is especially important because some
eye diseases may not have warning signs. The exams are the only way to detect
these diseases in their early stages, when they are easier to treat.

The exam includes several tests:

    * A visual field test to measure your side (peripheral) vision. A loss of peripheral vision may be a sign of glaucoma.
    * A visual acuity test, where you read an eye chart about 20 feet away, to check on how well you see at various distances
    * Tonometry, which measures your eye's interior pressure. It helps to detect glaucoma.
    * Dilation, which involves getting eye drops that dilate (widen) your pupils. This allows more light to enter the eye. Your eye care provider examines your eyes using a special magnifying lens. This provides a clear view of important tissues at the back of your eye, including the retina, macula, and optic nerve.

If you have a refractive error and are going to need glasses or contacts, then
you will also have a refraction test. When you have this test, you look
through a device that has lenses of different strengths to help your eye care
professional figure out which lenses will give you the clearest vision.

At what age you should start getting these exams and how often you need them
depends on many factors. They include your age, race, and overall health. For
example, if you are African American, you are at higher risk of glaucoma and
you need to start getting the exams earlier. If you have diabetes, you should
get an exam every year. Check with your health care provider about if and when
you need these exams.

## Start Here

    * Checklist for Your Eye Doctor Appointment (Prevent Blindness America)
    * Eye Safety at Home (Prevent Blindness America)
    * Healthy Living, Healthy Vision (Prevent Blindness America)
    * Keep Your Eyes Healthy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Eye Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Preventing Eye Injuries (American Academy of Ophthalmology)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Eye Exam: Is a Laser Retina Scan Worthwhile? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Get a Dilated Eye Exam ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Eye Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Get Screened at 40 (American Academy of Ophthalmology) Also in Spanish
    * How Often Should I Have an Eye Exam? (Prevent Blindness America)
    * Keep Your Vision Healthy: Learn About Comprehensive Dilated Eye Exams ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
    * Vision Screening ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * When to Have an Eye Exam (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Diet and Nutrition (American Academy of Ophthalmology) Also in Spanish
    * Eye Protection (National Farm Medicine Center) \- PDF
    * Protective Eyewear (American Academy of Ophthalmology) Also in Spanish
    * Selecting PPE for the Workplace (Personal Protective Equipment for the Eyes and Face) (Occupational Safety and Health Administration)
    * Ten Ways to Prevent Eye Injuries at Work (Prevent Blindness America)

## Related Issues

    * 5 Top Foods for Eye Health (Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics)
    * You Have Diabetes. How Can You Avoid Serious Eye Diseases? (Lighthouse Guild)

## Specifics

    * Auto Battery Safety Facts (Prevent Blindness America) \- PDF
    * Eye Health in Sports and Recreation (American Academy of Ophthalmology) Also in Spanish
    * Eye Safety at Work (Prevent Blindness America)
    * Four Fantastic Foods to Keep Your Eyes Healthy (American Academy of Ophthalmology) Also in Spanish
    * Practicing Fireworks Safety (American Academy of Ophthalmology) Also in Spanish
    * Prevent Eye Injuries from Fireworks (Prevent Blindness America)
    * Recommended Sports Eye Protectors (Prevent Blindness America)
    * Smoking and Eye Disease (American Academy of Ophthalmology) Also in Spanish
    * Tips for Buying Sports Eye Protectors (Prevent Blindness America)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Commentary: When will "Policy framework" catch up to leverage teleophthalmology to...
    * Article: Knowledge, Attitude and Practice Regarding Eye Health and Eye Health Services...
    * Article: Peek Community Eye Health - mHealth system to increase access and...
    * Eye Care -- see more articles

## Children

    * About the Eye ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (National Eye Institute)
    * First Aid Tips ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Eye Institute)
    * Healthy Vision Tips ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Eye Institute)
    * Protective Eyewear ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Eye Institute)
    * Sports and Your Eyes ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Eye Institute)
    * The Visual System ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (National Eye Institute)

## Older Adults

    * Your Aging Eyes: How You See as Time Goes By ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Eye Care](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Eyecare.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## Related Health Topics

    * Eye Diseases
    * Eye Infections
    * Eye Injuries
    * Eye Wear

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Eye Care is the National Eye
Institute

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 30 December 2019 Topic last reviewed: 14 February 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

