Link: https://medlineplus.gov/bacterialinfections.html    
                                Description: There are many types of bacterial infections. Learn about bacterial infections that can make you sick and how to treat them.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Bacterial Infections

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/bacterialinfections.html

#  Bacterial Infections

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Diagnosis and Tests
  * Prevention and Risk Factors
  * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

  * Related Issues
  * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

  * Images

### Research

  * Statistics and Research
  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Children
  * Teenagers
  * Women
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Bacteria are living things that have only one cell. Under a microscope, they
look like balls, rods, or spirals. They are so small that a line of 1,000
could fit across a pencil eraser. Most bacteria won't hurt you - less than 1
percent of the different types make people sick. Many are helpful. Some
bacteria help to digest food, destroy disease-causing cells, and give the body
needed vitamins. Bacteria are also used in making healthy foods like yogurt
and cheese.

But infectious bacteria can make you ill. They reproduce quickly in your body.
Many give off chemicals called toxins, which can damage tissue and make you
sick. Examples of bacteria that cause infections include Streptococcus,
Staphylococcus, and E. coli.

Antibiotics are the usual treatment. When you take antibiotics, follow the
directions carefully. Each time you take antibiotics, you increase the chances
that bacteria in your body will learn to resist them causing antibiotic
resistance. Later, you could get or spread an infection that those antibiotics
cannot cure.

## Start Here

  * Germs: Learn How Germs Work and What You Can Do to Protect Yourself (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Acid-Fast Bacillus (AFB) Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Bacteria Culture Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Blood Culture Test (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
  * Gram Stain (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
  * Immunofixation (IFE) Blood Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Immunoglobulins Blood Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Procalcitonin Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * White Blood Cell (WBC) in Stool ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

  * Germs and Hygiene: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Infection Control: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

  * Antibiotics: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

  * Antibiotic Resistance: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Bacterial vs. Viral Infections: How Do They Differ? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * How Infections Spread (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Probiotics: In Depth ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
  * What Is Sepsis? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of General Medical Sciences) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

  * Anaerobic Infections (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish
  * Brucellosis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Elizabethkingia (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Glanders (Burkholderia Mallei) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Leptospirosis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Melioidosis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Necrotizing Fasciitis: A Rare Disease, Especially for the Healthy (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Necrotizing Skin Infections (Merck & Co., Inc.) Also in Spanish
  * Pseudomonas aeruginosa in Healthcare Settings (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Q Fever (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Shigellosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases)
  * Trench Fever (Logical Images)
  * Vibrio parahaemolyticus (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Vibrio vulnificus (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
  * Yaws (World Health Organization) Also in Spanish

## Images

  * Hot Tub Rash (Pseudomonas Folliculitis) (Logical Images)

## Statistics and Research

  * Bleach vs. Bacteria ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of General Medical Sciences)
  * Oh What a Tangled Biofilm Web Bacteria Weave ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of General Medical Sciences)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Bacterial Infections ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Fasciitis, Necrotizing ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Q Fever ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Initial high-dose corticosteroids and renal impairment are risk factors for early...
  * Article: Pharmacological prophylaxis of infection in pediatric acute myeloid leukemia patients.
  * Article: Colistin Resistance in Enterobacterales Strains - A Current View.
  * Bacterial Infections -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

  * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
  * National Foundation for Infectious Diseases
  * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

  * Blood Culture (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)
  * Moraxella Catarrhalis: A Common Cause of Childhood Illnesses (American Academy of Pediatrics)
  * Shigella Infections (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
  * What Are Germs? (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
  * Yersiniosis (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)

## Teenagers

  * Arcanobacterium Haemolyticum Infections (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish
  * Why Should I Care about Germs? (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Women

  * Vibrio and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

  * Actinomycosis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Bacterial vaginosis -- aftercare (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Blood culture (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Gram stain (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Gram stain of skin lesion (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Necrotizing soft tissue infection (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Bacterial Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bacterialnfection.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Actinomycosis
  * Arterial stick
  * Bacterial vaginosis -- aftercare
  * Blood culture
  * Brucellosis
  * Complement fixation test to C. burnetii
  * Culture - duodenal tissue
  * Erysipeloid
  * Gram stain
  * Gram stain of skin lesion

  * Gram stain of tissue biopsy
  * Hot tub folliculitis
  * Lepromin skin test
  * Leptospirosis
  * Lymph node culture
  * Lymphangitis
  * Necrotizing soft tissue infection
  * Nocardia infection
  * Noma
  * Pleural fluid gram stain
  * Psittacosis
  * Pulmonary actinomycosis
  * Pulmonary nocardiosis
  * Q fever - early
  * Rat-bite fever
  * Rickettsial pox
  * Serology for brucellosis
  * Serology for tularemia
  * Shigellosis
  * Stool Gram stain
  * Swimming pool granuloma
  * Tularemia
  * Typhus
  * Yaws

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

  * Antibiotics
  * Botulism
  * Campylobacter Infections
  * Cellulitis
  * Chlamydia Infections
  * Clostridium Difficile Infections
  * E. Coli Infections
  * Haemophilus Infections
  * Immunization
  * Infection Control
  * Lyme Disease
  * Meningococcal Infections
  * Mycobacterial Infections
  * Pneumococcal Infections
  * Salmonella Infections
  * Staphylococcal Infections
  * Streptococcal Infections
  * Tetanus
  * Tick Bites
  * Traveler's Health
  * Tuberculosis
  * Whooping Cough

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Bacterial Infections is the
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Bacterial
Infections_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 28 June 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

