Link: https://medlineplus.gov/posttraumaticstressdisorder.html    
                                Description: Â You can get Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) after experiencing a traumatic event. PTSD starts at different times for different people.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/posttraumaticstressdisorder.html

#  Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder

Also called: PTSD

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Women
    * Older Adults
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)?

Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a mental health disorder that some
people develop after they experience or see a traumatic event. The traumatic
event may be life-threatening, such as combat, a natural disaster, a car
accident, or sexual assault. But sometimes the event is not necessarily a
dangerous one. For example, the sudden, unexpected death of a loved one can
also cause PTSD.

It's normal to feel afraid during and after a traumatic situation. The fear
triggers a "fight-or-flight" response. This is your body's way of helping to
protect itself from possible harm. It causes changes in your body such as the
release of certain hormones and increases in alertness, blood pressure, heart
rate, and breathing.

In time, most people recover from this naturally. But people with PTSD don't
feel better. They feel stressed and frightened long after the trauma is over.
In some cases, the PTSD symptoms may start later on. They might also come and
go over time.

### What causes post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)?

Researchers don't know why some people get PTSD and others don't. Genetics,
neurobiology, risk factors, and personal factors may affect whether you get
PTSD after a traumatic event.

### Who is at risk for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)?

You can develop PTSD at any age. Many risk factors play a part in whether you
will develop PTSD. They include

    * Your gender; women are more likely to develop PTSD
    * Having had trauma in childhood
    * Feeling horror, helplessness, or extreme fear
    * Going through a traumatic event that lasts a long time
    * Having little or no social support after the event
    * Dealing with extra stress after the event, such as loss of a loved one, pain and injury, or loss of a job or home
    * Having a history of mental illness or substance use

### What are the symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)?

There are four types of PTSD symptoms, but they may not be the same for
everyone. Each person experiences symptoms in their own way. The types are

    * **Re-experiencing symptoms** , where something reminds you of the trauma and you feel that fear again. Examples include 
      * Flashbacks, which cause you to feel like you are going through the event again
      * Nightmares
      * Frightening thoughts
    * **Avoidance symptoms** , where you try to avoid situations or people that trigger memories of the traumatic event. This may cause you to 
      * Stay away from places, events, or objects that are reminders of the traumatic experience. For example, if you were in a car accident, you might stop driving.
      * Avoiding thoughts or feelings related to the traumatic event. For example, you might try to stay very busy to try to avoid thinking about what happened.
    * **Arousal and reactivity symptoms** , which may cause you to be jittery or be on the lookout for danger. They include 
      * Being easily startled
      * Feeling tense or "on edge"
      * Having difficulty sleeping
      * Having angry outbursts
    * **Cognition and mood symptoms** , which are negative changes in beliefs and feelings. They include 
      * Trouble remembering important things about the traumatic event
      * Negative thoughts about yourself or the world
      * Feeling blame and guilt
      * No longer being interested in things you enjoyed
      * Trouble concentrating

The symptoms usually start soon after the traumatic event. But sometimes they
may not appear until months or years later. They also may come and go over
many years.

If your symptoms last longer than four weeks, cause you great distress, or
interfere with your work or home life, you might have PTSD.

### How is post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) diagnosed?

A health care provider who has experience helping people with mental illnesses
can diagnose PTSD. The provider will do a mental health screening and may also
do a physical exam. To get a diagnosis of PTSD, you must have all of these
symptoms for at least one month:

    * At least one re-experiencing symptom
    * At least one avoidance symptom
    * At least two arousal and reactivity symptoms
    * At least two cognition and mood symptoms

### What are the treatments for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)?

The main treatments for PTSD are talk therapy, medicines, or both. PTSD
affects people differently, so a treatment that works for one person may not
work for another. If you have PTSD, you need to work with a mental health
professional to find the best treatment for your symptoms.

    * **Talk therapy** , or psychotherapy, which can teach you about your symptoms. You will learn how to identify what triggers them and how to manage them. There are different types of talk therapy for PTSD.
    * **Medicines** can help with the symptoms of PTSD. Antidepressants may help control symptoms such as sadness, worry, anger, and feeling numb inside. Other medicines can help with sleep problems and nightmares.

### Can post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) be prevented?

There are certain factors that can help reduce the risk of developing PTSD.
These are known as resilience factors, and they include

    * Seeking out support from other people, such as friends, family, or a support group
    * Learning to feel good about your actions in the face of danger
    * Having a coping strategy or a way of getting through the bad event and learning from it
    * Being able to act and respond effectively despite feeling fear

Researchers are studying the importance of the resilience and risk factors for
PTSD. They are also studying how genetics and neurobiology can affect the risk
of PTSD. With more research, someday it may be possible to predict who is
likely to develop PTSD. This could also help in finding ways to prevent it.

NIH: National Institute of Mental Health

## Start Here

    * Dealing With Trauma: Recovering From Frightening Events ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
    * Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Mental Health) Also in Spanish
    * Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * PTSD Basics (National Center for PTSD)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * How Is PTSD Measured? (National Center for PTSD)
    * Mental Health Screening ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Antipsychotic drugs a last resort for these 5 conditions (ADHD, Anxiety, Depression, Insomnia and PTSD) (Consumers Union of U.S.)
    * Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) Treatment (Defense Health Agency)

## Living With

    * Coping with Traumatic Stress Reactions (National Center for PTSD) Also in Spanish
    * PTSD Treatment Programs in the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (National Center for PTSD)
    * Tips for Survivors of a Traumatic Event: Managing Your Stress (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration) \- PDF

## Related Issues

    * Abuse, Maltreatment and PTSD and Their Relationship to Migraine (American Migraine Foundation)
    * Chronic Pain and PTSD: A Guide for Patients (National Center for PTSD)
    * Common Reactions After Trauma (National Center for PTSD) Also in Spanish
    * Disaster Rescue and Response Workers (National Center for PTSD)
    * Effects of PTSD on Family (National Center for PTSD) Also in Spanish
    * Other Common Problems (National Center for PTSD)

## Specifics

    * Returning from the War Zone: A Guide for Families of Military Members (National Center for PTSD) \- PDF
    * Returning from the War Zone: A Guide for Military Personnel (National Center for PTSD) \- PDF

## Videos and Tutorials

    * About Face ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (National Center for PTSD)
    * PTSD: National Center for PTSD ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Department of Veterans Affairs)

## Statistics and Research

    * How Common Is PTSD? (National Center for PTSD)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Stress Disorders, Post-Traumatic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Medical Surgical Nurse Self-perceived Competency in Posttraumatic Stress Disorder/Substance Use Disorder...
    * Article: Effectiveness and safety of ear acupuncture for trauma-related mental disorders after...
    * Article: Neurostimulation in Anxiety Disorders, Post-traumatic Stress Disorder, and Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder.
    * Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder -- see more articles
    * \-- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Behavioral Health Treatment Services Locator (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration)
    * Help for Mental Illnesses ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Mental Health)
    * National Center for PTSD
    * National Institute of Mental Health ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * Childhood Traumatic Grief (National Child Traumatic Stress Network)
    * Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (Nemours Foundation)
    * PTSD in Children and Teens (National Center for PTSD)
    * Understanding Traumatic Stress in Children (National Center on Family Homelessness) \- PDF

## Teenagers

    * Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (Nemours Foundation)

## Women

    * Issues Specific to Women (National Center for PTSD)
    * Postpartum Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (Postpartum Support International)

## Older Adults

    * Aging Veterans and Posttraumatic Stress Symptoms (National Center for PTSD)

## Patient Handouts

    * Post-traumatic stress disorder (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Traumatic events and children (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PTSD.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Post-traumatic stress disorder
    * Traumatic events and children

## Related Health Topics

    * Stress
    * Veterans and Military Health

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder is
the National Institute of Mental Health

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Post-Traumatic
Stress Disorder_

## NIH MedlinePlus Magazine

    * Confronting 9/11 Trauma from Childhood into Adulthood
    * Depression, Guilt, Anger: Know the Signs of PTSD
    * PTSD: Recovery and Treatment
    * Traumatic Stress: New Roads to Recovery

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 6 April 2020 Topic last reviewed: 11 August 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

