Link: https://medlineplus.gov/opioidoverdose.html    
                                Description: Opioids affect the part of the brain that regulates breathing. When people take high doses of opioids, it can lead to an overdose, with the slowing or stopping of breathing and sometimes death. Learn how to prevent and treat opioid overdoses.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Opioid Overdose

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/opioidoverdose.html

#  Opioid Overdose

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk

### For You

    * Women
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What are opioids?

Opioids, sometimes called narcotics, are a type of drug. They include strong
prescription pain relievers, such as oxycodone, hydrocodone, fentanyl, and
tramadol. The illegal drug heroin is also an opioid.

A health care provider may give you a prescription opioid to reduce pain after
you have had a major injury or surgery. You may get them if you have severe
pain from health conditions like cancer. Some health care providers prescribe
them for chronic pain.

Prescription opioids used for pain relief are generally safe when taken for a
short time and as prescribed by your health care provider. However, people who
take opioids are at risk for opioid dependence and addiction, as well as an
overdose. These risks increase when opioids are misused. Misuse means you are
not taking the medicines according to your provider's instructions, you are
using them to get high, or you are taking someone else's opioids.

### What is an opioid overdose?

Opioids affect the part of the brain that regulates breathing. When people
take high doses of opioids, it can lead to an overdose, with the slowing or
stopping of breathing and sometimes death.

### What causes an opioid overdose?

An opioid overdose can happen for a variety of reasons, including if you

    * Take an opioid to get high
    * Take an extra dose of a prescription opioid or take it too often (either accidentally or on purpose)
    * Mix an opioid with other medicines, illegal drugs, or alcohol. An overdose can be fatal when mixing an opioid and certain anxiety treatment medicines, such as Xanax or Valium.
    * Take an opioid medicine that was prescribed for someone else. Children are especially at risk of an accidental overdose if they take medicine not intended for them.

There is also a risk of overdose if you are getting medication-assisted
treatment (MAT). MAT is a treatment for opioid abuse and addiction. Many of
the medicines used for MAT are controlled substances that can be misused.

### Who is at risk for an opioid overdose?

Anyone who takes an opioid can be at risk of an overdose, but you are at
higher risk if you

    * Take illegal opioids
    * Take more opioid medicine than you are prescribed
    * Combine opioids with other medicines and/or alcohol
    * Have certain medical conditions, such as sleep apnea, or reduced kidney  or liver function
    * Are over 65 years old

### What are the signs of an opioid overdose?

The signs of an opioid overdose include

    * The person's face is extremely pale and/or feels clammy to the touch
    * Their body goes limp
    * Their fingernails or lips have a purple or blue color
    * They start vomiting or making gurgling noises
    * They cannot be awakened or are unable to speak
    * Their breathing or heartbeat slows or stops

### What should I do if I think that someone is having an opioid overdose?

If you think someone is having an opioid overdose,

    * **Call 9-1-1 immediately**
    * Administer naloxone, if it is available. Naloxone is a safe medication that can quickly stop an opioid overdose. It can be injected into the muscle or sprayed into the nose to rapidly block the effects of the opioid on the body.
    * Try to keep the person awake and breathing
    * Lay the person on their side to prevent choking
    * Stay with the person until emergency workers arrive

### Can an opioid overdose be prevented?

There are steps you can take to help prevent an overdose:

    * Take your medicine exactly as prescribed by your health care provider. Do not take more medicine at once or take medicine more often than you are supposed to.
    * Never mix pain medicines with alcohol, sleeping pills, or illegal substances
    * Store medicine safely where children or pets can't reach it. Consider using a medicine lockbox. Besides keeping children safe, it also prevents someone who lives with you or visits your house from stealing your medicines.
    * Dispose of unused medicine promptly

If you take an opioid, it is also important to teach your family and friends
how to respond to an overdose. If you are at high risk for an overdose, ask
your health care provider about whether you need a prescription for naloxone.

## Start Here

    * Opioid Overdose (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration)
    * Opioid Overdose Crisis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * SAMHSA Opioid Overdose Prevention Toolkit (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Having Naloxone on Hand Can Save a Life During an Opioid Overdose (Food and Drug Administration)
    * Opioid Overdose Reversal with Naloxone (Narcan, Evzio) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse)

## Specifics

    * Recovering from Opioid Overdose: Resources for Overdose Survivors & Family Members (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration) \- PDF

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: opioid addiction ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Videos and Tutorials

    * How Naloxone Saves Lives in Opioid Overdose ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Statistics and Research

    * FastStats: Drug Overdoses (National Center for Health Statistics)
    * Fentanyl and Other Synthetic Opioids Drug Overdose Deaths ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Infographic](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Infographic.gif) (National Institute on Drug Abuse)
    * Information Sheet on Opioid Overdose (World Health Organization) Also in Spanish
    * Overdose Deaths Involving Opioids, Cocaine, and Psychostimulants -- United States, 2015-2016 (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Opioid Overdose ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Management of dependent use of illicit opioids.
    * Article: Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic considerations in developing a response to the opioid...
    * Article: Opioid use disorder and treatment: challenges and opportunities.
    * Opioid Overdose -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Commonly Used Opioid Terms (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Women

    * CDC Vital Signs: Prescription Painkiller Overdoses (Opioids): A Growing Epidemic, Especially Among Women (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Patient Handouts

    * Preventing an Opioid Overdose (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF

## Topic Image

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OpioidOverdose.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Acetaminophen and codeine overdose
    * Codeine overdose
    * Heroin overdose
    * Hydrocodone and acetaminophen overdose
    * Hydrocodone/oxycodone overdose
    * Hydromorphone overdose
    * Methadone overdose
    * Morphine overdose

## Related Health Topics

    * Opioid Misuse and Addiction
    * Opioid Misuse and Addiction Treatment
    * Prescription Drug Misuse
    * Safe Opioid Use

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Opioid Overdose is the National
Institute on Drug Abuse

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 27 August 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

