Link: https://medlineplus.gov/alcohol.html    
                                Description: Moderate drinking may be safe for most people. But drinking too much can be harmful, so it&#39;s important to know how alcohol affects you and how much is too much.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Alcohol

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/alcohol.html

#  Alcohol

Also called: Drinking

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors

### Learn More

    * Related Issues

### See, Play and Learn

    * Health Check Tools

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Men
    * Women
    * Older Adults
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

If you are like many Americans, you drink alcohol at least occasionally. For
many people, moderate drinking is probably safe. But drinking too much can be
harmful, so it's important to know how alcohol affects you and how much is too
much.

### How does alcohol affect the body?

Alcohol is a central nervous system depressant. This means that it is a drug
that slows down brain activity. It can change your mood, behavior, and self-
control. It can cause problems with memory and thinking clearly. Alcohol can
also affect your coordination and physical control.

Alcohol also has effects on the other organs in your body. For example, it can
raise your blood pressure and heart rate. If you drink too much at once, it
could make you throw up.

### Why are the effects of alcohol different from person to person?

Alcohol's effects vary from person to person, depending on a variety of
factors, including:

    * How much you drank
    * How quickly you drank it
    * The amount of food you ate before drinking
    * Your age
    * Your sex
    * Your race or ethnicity
    * Your physical condition
    * Whether or not you have a family history of alcohol problems

### What is moderate drinking?

    * For most women, moderate drinking is no more than one standard drink a day
    * For most men, moderate drinking is no more than two standard drinks a day

### What is a standard drink?

In the United States, a standard drink is one that contains about 14 grams of
pure alcohol, which is found in:

    * 12 ounces of beer (5% alcohol content)
    * 5 ounces of wine (12% alcohol content)
    * 1.5 ounces or a "shot" of distilled spirits or liquor (40% alcohol content)

### Who should not drink alcohol?

Some people should not drink alcohol at all, including those who

    * Are recovering from an alcohol use disorder (AUD) or are unable to control the amount they drink
    * Are under age 21
    * Are pregnant or trying to become pregnant
    * Are taking medicines that can interact with alcohol
    * Have medical conditions that get can worse if you drink alcohol
    * Are planning on driving
    * Will be operating machinery

If you have questions about whether it is safe for you to drink, talk with
your health care provider.

### What is excessive drinking?

Excessive drinking includes binge drinking and heavy drinking:

    * Binge drinking is drinking so much at once that your blood alcohol concentration (BAC) level is 0.08% or more. For a man, this usually happens after having 5 or more drinks within a few hours. For a woman, it is after about 4 or more drinks within a few hours.
    * Heavy drinking is having 15 or more drinks a week for a man. For a woman, it is having 8 or more drinks a week.

Binge drinking raises your risk of injuries, car crashes, and alcohol
poisoning. It also puts you of becoming violent or being the victim of
violence.

Heavy drinking over a long period of time may cause health problems such as

    * Alcohol use disorder
    * Liver diseases, including cirrhosis and fatty liver disease
    * Heart diseases
    * Increased risk for certain cancers
    * Increased risk of injuries

Heavy drinking can also cause problems at home, at work, and with friends. But
treatment can help.

NIH: National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism

## Start Here

    * Alcohol and Public Health: Frequently Asked Questions (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Alcohol Facts ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish
    * Alcohol Use: If You Drink, Keep It Moderate (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Hangovers ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)
    * Overview of Alcohol Consumption ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Blood Alcohol Level ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * College Drinking - Changing the Culture ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)
    * Tips for Cutting Down on Drinking ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)

## Related Issues

    * Alcohol Alert: Alcohol's Damaging Effects on the Brain ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)
    * Alcohol Alert: Link Between Stress and Alcohol ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)
    * Alcohol Intolerance (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Alcohol Overdose: The Dangers of Drinking Too Much ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)
    * Alcohol Poisoning (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Alcohol Use and Cancer (American Cancer Society) \- PDF
    * Alcohol's Effects on the Body ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)
    * Alcohol: Does It Affect Blood Pressure? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Antidepressants and Alcohol (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Caffeine and Alcohol (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Drinking Levels Defined ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)
    * Drugged Driving ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish
    * Hangovers (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Harmful Interactions: Mixing Alcohol with Medicines ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism) Also in Spanish
    * Interrupted Memories: Alcohol-Induced Blackouts ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)
    * Risky Drinking Can Put a Chill on Your Summer Fun ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)
    * The Truth About Holiday Spirits ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)
    * Using Alcohol to Relieve Your Pain: What Are the Risks? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)

## Health Check Tools

    * Alcohol Calorie Calculator ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)
    * Calculators ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)
    * Interactive Worksheets and More ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)

## Statistics and Research

    * Alcohol and Cancer Risk ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Alcohol Facts and Statistics ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)
    * Alcohol-Related Deaths Increase Nationwide ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Possible increased risk of colonic diverticular disease from alcohol intoxication or...
    * Article: Smoking and alcohol drinking and risk of non-union or delayed union...
    * Article: Alcohol use and its consequences in the Czech Republic.
    * Alcohol -- see more articles
    * Benefits of alcohol drinking -- see more articles
    * Binge drinking -- see more articles
    * Drinking and driving -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * NIAAA Spectrum ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)

## Find an Expert

    * Behavioral Health Treatment Services Locator (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration)
    * Getting Help ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)
    * National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Men

    * Excessive Alcohol Use and Risks to Men's Health (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Women

    * Excessive Alcohol Use and Risks to Women's Health (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Women and Alcohol ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism) \- PDF

## Older Adults

    * Facts About Aging and Alcohol ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute on Aging) Also in Spanish
    * Older Adults and Alcohol ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)

## Patient Handouts

    * Alcohol use and safe drinking (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Calorie count - Alcoholic beverages (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Deciding to quit drinking alcohol (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Health risks of alcohol use (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Weight loss and alcohol (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * What type of drinker are you? (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * When you are drinking too much - tips for cutting back (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Alcohol](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Alcohol.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Alcohol use and safe drinking
    * Breath alcohol test
    * Calorie count - Alcoholic beverages
    * Deciding to quit drinking alcohol
    * Ethanol poisoning
    * Health risks of alcohol use
    * Responsible drinking
    * Weight loss and alcohol
    * What type of drinker are you?
    * When you are drinking too much - tips for cutting back
    * Wine and heart health

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

    * Alcohol Use Disorder (AUD)
    * Underage Drinking

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Alcohol is the National Institute
on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Alcohol_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 17 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 12 June 2014

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

