Link: https://medlineplus.gov/hiatalhernia.html    
                                Description: A hiatal hernia is a result of the upper part of the stomach pushing through the diaphragm into the chest area. Read about symptoms and treatment.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Hiatal Hernia

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/hiatalhernia.html

#  Hiatal Hernia

## Summary

A hiatal hernia is a condition in which the upper part of your stomach bulges
through an opening in your diaphragm. Your diaphragm is the thin muscle that
separates your chest from your abdomen. Your diaphragm helps keep acid from
coming up into your esophagus. When you have a hiatal hernia, it's easier for
the acid to come up. This leaking of acid from your stomach into your
esophagus is called GERD (gastroesophageal reflux disease). GERD may cause
symptoms such as

    * Heartburn
    * Problems swallowing
    * A dry cough
    * Bad breath
    * Nausea and/or vomiting
    * Breathing problems
    * The wearing away of your teeth

Often, the cause of a hiatal hernia is unknown. It may have to do with
weakness in the surrounding muscles. Sometimes the cause is an injury or a
birth defect. Your risk of getting a hiatal hernia goes up as you age; they
are common in people over age 50. You are also at higher risk if you have
obesity or smoke.

People usually find out that they have a hiatal hernia when they are getting
tests for GERD, heartburn, chest pain, or abdominal pain. The tests may be a
chest x-ray, an x-ray with a barium swallow, or an upper endoscopy.

You don't need treatment if your hiatal hernia does not cause any symptoms or
problems. If you do have symptoms, some lifestyle changes may help. They
include eating small meals, avoiding certain foods, not smoking or drinking
alcohol, and losing weight. Your health care provider may recommend antacids
or other medicines. If these don't help, you may need surgery.

NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Learn More

    * Acid Reflux (GER and GERD) in Adults ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
    * ASGE: Find a Doctor (American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy)
    * Find a Gastroenterologist (American College of Gastroenterology)
    * Hiatal Hernia (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Hiatal hernia repair - slideshow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Upper Gastrointestinal (GI) Series ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
    * Upper Gastrointestinal (GI) Tract X-Ray (Radiography) (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * Upper GI Endoscopy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hernia, Hiatal ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Robotic Foregut Surgery.
    * Article: Paraesophageal Hernia Repair and Fundoplication.
    * Article: What Is a Paraesophageal Hernia?
    * Hiatal Hernia -- see more articles

## Patient Handouts

    * Anti-reflux surgery (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Anti-reflux surgery - children (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Hiatal hernia (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Hiatal Hernia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HiatalHernia.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Hiatal Hernia is the National
Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 7 May 2019 Topic last reviewed: 31 May 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

