Link: https://medlineplus.gov/alcoholusedisorderaud.html    
                                Description: An alcohol use disorder (AUD) is drinking that causes distress and harm. AUD can range from mild to severe (alcoholism). Learn the signs that you may have a problem with drinking.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Alcohol Use Disorder (AUD)

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/alcoholusedisorderaud.html

#  Alcohol Use Disorder (AUD)

Also called: Alcohol Abuse, Alcohol dependence, Alcoholism

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Symptoms
  * Diagnosis and Tests
  * Prevention and Risk Factors
  * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

  * Living With
  * Related Issues
  * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

  * Health Check Tools

### Research

  * Statistics and Research
  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Teenagers
  * Men
  * Women
  * Older Adults
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is alcohol use disorder (AUD)?

For most adults, moderate alcohol use is probably not harmful. However, about
18 million adult Americans have an alcohol use disorder (AUD). This means that
their drinking causes distress and harm. AUD can range from mild to severe,
depending on the symptoms. Severe AUD is sometimes called alcoholism or
alcohol dependence.

AUD is a disease that causes

  * Craving - a strong need to drink
  * Loss of control - not being able to stop drinking once you've started
  * Negative emotional state - feeling anxious and irritable when you are not drinking

### What is binge drinking?

Binge drinking is drinking so much at once that your blood alcohol
concentration (BAC) level is 0.08% or more. For a man, this usually happens
after having 5 or more drinks within a few hours. For a woman, it is after
about 4 or more drinks within a few hours. Not everyone who binge drinks has
an AUD, but they are at higher risk for getting one.

### What are the dangers of too much alcohol?

Too much alcohol is dangerous. Heavy drinking can increase the risk of certain
cancers. It may lead to liver diseases, such as fatty liver disease and
cirrhosis. It can also cause damage to the brain and other organs. Drinking
during pregnancy can harm your baby. Alcohol also increases the risk of death
from car crashes, injuries, homicide, and suicide.

### How do I know if I have an alcohol use disorder (AUD)?

You may have an AUD if you can answer yes to two or more of these questions:

In the past year, have you

  * Ended up drinking more or for a longer time than you had planned to?
  * Wanted to cut down or stop drinking, or tried to, but couldn't?
  * Spent a lot of your time drinking or recovering from drinking?
  * Felt a strong need to drink?
  * Found that drinking - or being sick from drinking - often interfered with your family life, job, or school?
  * Kept drinking even though it was causing trouble with your family or friends?
  * Given up or cut back on activities that you enjoyed just so you could drink?
  * Gotten into dangerous situations while drinking or after drinking? Some examples are driving drunk and having unsafe sex.
  * Kept drinking even though it was making you feel depressed or anxious? Or when it was adding to another health problem?
  * Had to drink more and more to feel the effects of the alcohol?
  * Had withdrawal symptoms when the alcohol was wearing off? They include trouble sleeping, shakiness, irritability, anxiety, depression, restlessness, nausea, and sweating. In severe cases, you could have a fever, seizures, or hallucinations.

If you have any of these symptoms, your drinking may already be a cause for
concern. The more symptoms you have, the more serious the problem is.

### What should I do if I think that I might have an alcohol use disorder
(AUD)?

If you think you might have an AUD, see your health care provider for an
evaluation. Your provider can help make a treatment plan, prescribe medicines,
and if needed, give you treatment referrals.

NIH: National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism

## Start Here

  * Alcohol Use Disorder ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)
  * Drinking to Excess: Recognize and Treat Alcohol Problems ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
  * Faces of Change: Do I Have a Problem with Alcohol or Drugs? (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration) \- PDF
  * Rethinking Drinking: Questions and Answers ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)

## Symptoms

  * What Are Symptoms of Alcohol Use Disorder? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Blood Alcohol Level ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Screening Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)
  * Signs of Alcohol Misuse ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

  * Drinking Levels Defined ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)

## Treatments and Therapies

  * Alcohol Use Disorder (AUD) Treatment: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * NIAAA Alcohol Treatment Navigator ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)

## Living With

  * Children of Alcoholics (American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry) \- PDF Also in Spanish
  * Intervention: Help a Loved One Overcome Addiction (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Support for Quitting: Choose Your Approach ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)
  * Taking Medicines Safely After Alcohol or Drug Abuse Recovery (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

  * Alcohol Poisoning (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Alcohol's Effects on the Body ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)
  * Minority Health and Health Disparities ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)
  * PTSD and Problems with Alcohol Use (National Center for PTSD)
  * Smoking Cessation in Recovering Alcoholics (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
  * The Truth About Holiday Spirits ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)
  * Wernicke-Korsakoff Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
  * What People Recovering from Alcoholism Need to Know about Osteoporosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases)

## Genetics

  * Alcohol Alert: Genetics of Alcoholism ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)
  * Genetics Home Reference: alcohol use disorder ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Health Check Tools

  * Alcohol Use Screening (Department of Veterans Affairs)
  * Calculators ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)
  * Interactive Worksheets and More ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)

## Statistics and Research

  * Alcohol Facts and Statistics ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)
  * Biology of Addiction: Drugs and Alcohol Can Hijack Your Brain ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
  * CDC Vital Signs: Alcohol Poisoning Deaths (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
  * CDC Vital Signs: Alcohol Screening and Counseling (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
  * Increases in Problem Drinking ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
  * US Adults Drink 17 Billion Binge Drinks a Year (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Alcohol Withdrawal Delirium ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Alcoholism ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Binge Drinking ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Possible increased risk of colonic diverticular disease from alcohol intoxication or...
  * Article: A randomized controlled efficacy trial of an electronic screening and brief...
  * Article: Management of insomnia in alcohol use disorder.
  * Alcohol Use Disorder (AUD) -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

  * Behavioral Health Treatment Services Locator (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration)
  * Getting Help ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)
  * National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Teenagers

  * Coping with an Alcoholic Parent (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Men

  * Excessive Alcohol Use and Risks to Men's Health (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Women

  * Excessive Alcohol Use and Risks to Women's Health (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Older Adults

  * Facts About Aging and Alcohol ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute on Aging) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

  * Alcohol use disorder (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Alcohol withdrawal (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Alcoholic ketoacidosis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Alcoholic liver disease (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Alcoholic neuropathy (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Deciding to quit drinking alcohol (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Health risks of alcohol use (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Helping a loved one with a drinking problem (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * When you are drinking too much - tips for cutting back (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Alcoholism and Alcohol Abuse](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Alcohol2.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Alcohol use disorder
  * Alcohol withdrawal
  * Alcoholic ketoacidosis
  * Alcoholic liver disease
  * Alcoholic neuropathy
  * Beriberi
  * Central pontine myelinolysis
  * Deciding to quit drinking alcohol
  * Delirium tremens
  * Diet and substance abuse recovery

  * Health risks of alcohol use
  * Helping a loved one with a drinking problem
  * How to stop drinking
  * Myths about drinking alcohol
  * Pellagra
  * Serum ketones test
  * Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome
  * When you are drinking too much - tips for cutting back

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

  * Alcohol
  * Alcohol Use Disorder (AUD) Treatment
  * Cirrhosis
  * Fatty Liver Disease
  * Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders
  * Impaired Driving
  * Underage Drinking

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Alcohol Use Disorder (AUD) is the
National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Alcohol Use
Disorder (AUD)_

## NIH MedlinePlus Magazine

  * How Much Is Too Much? 5 Things You Need to Know about Binge Drinking

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 17 November 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

