Link: https://medlineplus.gov/polymyalgiarheumatica.html    
                                Description: Polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR) is a disorder that causes muscle pain and stiffness in your neck, shoulders and hips. Read about diagnosis and treatment.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Polymyalgia Rheumatica

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/polymyalgiarheumatica.html

#  Polymyalgia Rheumatica

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Polymyalgia rheumatica is a disorder that causes muscle pain and stiffness in
your neck, shoulders, and hips. It is most common in women and almost always
occurs in people over 50. The main symptom is stiffness after resting. Other
symptoms include fever, weakness and weight loss. In some cases, polymyalgia
rheumatica develops overnight. In others, it is gradual.

The cause of polymyalgia rheumatica is unknown. There is no specific test for
it. Your doctor will use your medical history, symptoms, and a physical exam
to make the diagnosis. Lab tests for inflammation may help confirm the
diagnosis.

Polymyalgia rheumatica sometimes occurs along with giant cell arteritis, a
condition that causes swelling of the arteries in your head. Symptoms include
headaches and blurred vision. Doctors often prescribe prednisone, a steroid
medicine, for both conditions. With treatment, polymyalgia rheumatica usually
disappears in a day or two. Without treatment, it usually goes away after a
year or more.

NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases

## Start Here

    * Polymyalgia Rheumatica (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Polymyalgia Rheumatica (American College of Rheumatology) Also in Spanish
    * Polymyalgia Rheumatica and Giant Cell Arteritis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * C-Reactive Protein (CRP) Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate (ESR) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Prednisone (Johns Hopkins Vasculitis Center)
    * Prednisone and Other Corticosteroids: Balance the Risks and Benefits (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Giant Cell Arteritis and Polymyalgia Rheumatica (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * What is Vasculitis? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Polymyalgia Rheumatica ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Early large vessel systemic vasculitis in adults.
    * Article: Polymyalgia Rheumatica: The Great Imitator.
    * Article: Pathogenesis, Diagnosis and Management of Polymyalgia Rheumatica.
    * Polymyalgia Rheumatica -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * American College of Rheumatology
    * Find a Rheumatologist (American College of Rheumatology)
    * National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * ESR (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Polymyalgia rheumatica (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Polymyalgia
Rheumatica](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PolymyalgiaRheumatica.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * ESR
    * Polymyalgia rheumatica

## Related Health Topics

    * Giant Cell Arteritis
    * Vasculitis

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Polymyalgia Rheumatica is the
National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 27 February 2020 Topic last reviewed: 25 March 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

