Link: https://medlineplus.gov/hidradenitissuppurativa.html    
                                Description: Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS), or acne inversa, is a chronic skin disease. It causes painful bumps in your armpits and groin. Learn about treatment.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Hidradenitis Suppurativa

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/hidradenitissuppurativa.html

#  Hidradenitis Suppurativa

Also called: Acne inversa, Suppurative hidradenitis

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here

### Learn More

    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Teenagers

## Summary

### What is hidradenitis suppurativa (HS)?

Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) is a chronic skin disease. It causes painful,
boil-like lumps that form under the skin. It often affects areas where the
skin rubs together, such as your armpits and groin. The lumps become inflamed
and painful. They often break open, causing abscesses that drain fluid and
pus. As the abscesses heal, they can cause scarring of the skin.

### What causes hidradenitis suppurativa (HS)?

The lumps in HS form because of blockages of the hair follicles. The blocked
hair follicles trap bacteria, which leads to inflammation and rupture. In most
cases, the cause of the blockages is unknown. Genetics, environment, and
hormonal factors may play a role. Some cases of HS are caused by changes in
certain genes.

HS is not caused by bad hygiene, and it cannot be spread to others.

### Who is at risk for hidradenitis suppurativa (HS)?

HS usually starts after puberty, usually in the teens or twenties. It is more
common in

    * Women
    * People with a family history of HS
    * People who are overweight or have obesity
    * Smokers

### What are the symptoms of hidradenitis suppurativa (HS)?

The symptoms of HS include

    * Small pitted areas of skin containing blackheads
    * Painful, red, lumps that get bigger and break open. This causes abscesses that drain fluid and pus. They may itch and have an unpleasant odor.
    * The abscesses heal very slowly, recur over time, and can lead to scarring and tunnels under the skin

HS can be mild, moderate, or severe:

    * In mild HS, there are only one or a few lumps in one area of the skin. A mild case will often get worse, becoming a moderate disease.
    * Moderate HS include recurrences of the lumps that get bigger and break open. The lumps form in more than one area of the body.
    * With severe HS, there are widespread lumps, scarring, and chronic pain that may make it hard to move

Because of the difficulty of dealing with the disease, people with HS are at
risk for depression and anxiety.

### How is hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) diagnosed?

There is no specific test for HS, and it is often misdiagnosed in the early
stages. To make a diagnosis, your health care provider will ask about your
medical history and your symptoms. He or she will look at the lumps on your
skin and test a sample of the skin or pus (if there is any).

### What are the treatments for hidradenitis suppurativa?

There is no cure for HS. Treatments focus on the symptoms, but they are not
always effective for everyone. The treatments depend on how severe the disease
is, and they include

    * **Medicines** , including steroids, antibiotics, pain relievers, and medicines that flight inflammation. In mild cases, the medicines may be topical. This means that you apply them to your skin. Otherwise the medicines may be injected or taken orally (by mouth).
    * **Surgery** for severe cases, to remove the lumps and scars

It may also help if you can avoid things that can irritate your skin, by

    * Wearing loose-fitting clothing
    * Staying at a healthy weight
    * Quitting smoking
    * Avoiding heat and humidity
    * Being careful not to injure your skin

## Start Here

    * Hidradenitis Suppurativa (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Hidradenitis Suppurativa ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences)
    * Hidradenitis Suppurativa: Overview (American Academy of Dermatology)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: hidradenitis suppurativa ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Images

    * Hidradenitis Suppurativa (Logical Images)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hidradenitis Suppurativa ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Psychiatric diseases from the psychotic spectrum in hidradenitis suppurativa patients: An...
    * Article: Presence of arthralgia exacerbates decreased quality of life in hidradenitis suppurativa...
    * Article: Topical timolol for treatment of persistent granulation tissue in the setting...
    * Hidradenitis Suppurativa -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Find a Dermatologist (American Academy of Dermatology)
    * National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

    * Hidradenitis Suppurativa (Logical Images)

## Topic Image

![Hidradenitis
Suppurativa](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HidradenitisSuppurativa.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## Related Health Topics

    * Sweat

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Hidradenitis Suppurativa is the
National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 30 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 5 October 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

