Link: https://medlineplus.gov/diarrhea.html    
                                Description: Diarrhea can range from mild to severe and can be dangerous in children. Find out what you can do to treat symptoms and when to call your doctor.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Diarrhea

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/diarrhea.html

#  Diarrhea

Also called: Dysentery, The runs, The trots

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Older Adults
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is diarrhea?

Diarrhea is loose, watery stools (bowel movements). You have diarrhea if you
have loose stools three or more times in one day. Acute diarrhea is diarrhea
that lasts a short time. It is a common problem. It usually lasts about one or
two days, but it may last longer. Then it goes away on its own.

Diarrhea lasting more than a few days may be a sign of a more serious problem.
Chronic diarrhea -- diarrhea that lasts at least four weeks -- can be a
symptom of a chronic disease. Chronic diarrhea symptoms may be continual, or
they may come and go.

### What causes diarrhea?

The most common causes of diarrhea include

    * Bacteria from contaminated food or water
    * Viruses such as the flu, norovirus, or rotavirus . Rotavirus is the most common cause of acute diarrhea in children.
    * Parasites, which are tiny organisms found in contaminated food or water
    * Medicines such as antibiotics, cancer drugs, and antacids that contain magnesium
    * Food intolerances and sensitivities, which are problems digesting certain ingredients or foods. An example is lactose intolerance.
    * Diseases that affect the stomach, small intestine, or colon, such as Crohn's disease
    * Problems with how the colon functions, such as irritable bowel syndrome

Some people also get diarrhea after stomach surgery, because sometimes the
surgeries can cause food to move through your digestive system more quickly.

Sometimes no cause can be found. If your diarrhea goes away within a few days,
finding the cause is usually not necessary.

### Who is at risk for diarrhea?

People of all ages can get diarrhea. On average, adults In the United States
have acute diarrhea once a year. Young children have it an average of twice a
year.

People who visit developing countries are at risk for traveler's diarrhea. It
is caused by consuming contaminated food or water.

### What other symptoms might I have with diarrhea?

Other possible symptoms of diarrhea include

    * Cramps or pain in the abdomen
    * An urgent need to use the bathroom
    * Loss of bowel control

If a virus or bacteria is the cause of your diarrhea, you may also have a
fever, chills, and bloody stools.

Diarrhea can cause dehydration, which means that your body does not have
enough fluid to work properly. Dehydration can be serious, especially for
children, older adults, and people with weakened immune systems.

### When should I see a doctor for diarrhea?

Although it is usually not harmful, diarrhea can become dangerous or signal a
more serious problem. Contact your health care provider if you have

    * Signs of dehydration
    * Diarrhea for more than 2 days, if you are an adult. For children, contact the provider if it lasts more than 24 hours.
    * Severe pain in your abdomen or rectum (for adults)
    * A fever of 102 degrees or higher
    * Stools containing blood or pus
    * Stools that are black and tarry

If children have diarrhea, parents or caregivers should not hesitate to call a
health care provider. Diarrhea can be especially dangerous in newborns and
infants.

### How is the cause of diarrhea diagnosed?

To find the cause of diarrhea, your health care provider may

    * Do a physical exam
    * Ask about any medicines you are taking
    * Test your stool or blood to look for bacteria, parasites, or other signs of disease or infection
    * Ask you to stop eating certain foods to see whether your diarrhea goes away

If you have chronic diarrhea, your health care provider may perform other
tests to look for signs of disease.

### What are the treatments for diarrhea?

Diarrhea is treated by replacing lost fluids and electrolytes to prevent
dehydration. Depending on the cause of the problem, you may need medicines to
stop the diarrhea or treat an infection.

Adults with diarrhea should drink water, fruit juices, sports drinks, sodas
without caffeine, and salty broths. As your symptoms improve, you can eat
soft, bland food.

Children with diarrhea should be given oral rehydration solutions to replace
lost fluids and electrolytes.

### Can diarrhea be prevented?

Two types of diarrhea can be prevented - rotavirus diarrhea and traveler's
diarrhea. There are vaccines for rotavirus. They are given to babies in two or
three doses.

You can help prevent traveler's diarrhea by being careful about what you eat
and drink when you are in developing countries:

    * Use only bottled or purified water for drinking, making ice cubes, and brushing your teeth
    * If you do use tap water, boil it or use iodine tablets
    * Make sure that the cooked food you eat is fully cooked and served hot
    * Avoid unwashed or unpeeled raw fruits and vegetables

NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Start Here

    * Diarrhea ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
    * Diarrheal Diseases - Acute and Chronic (American College of Gastroenterology)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Bacteria Culture Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * C. Diff Testing ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Colonoscopy: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Diarrhea (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Lower Gastrointestinal (GI) Tract X-Ray (Radiography) (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * Ova and Parasite Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * White Blood Cell (WBC) in Stool ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Travelers' Health: Water Disinfection for Travelers (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Treatments and Therapies

    * 5 Things to Know about Probiotics ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Antidiarrheal Medicines: OTC Relief for Diarrhea (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * BRAT Diet: Recovering from an Upset Stomach (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Chamomile ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)

## Related Issues

    * Bowel Control Problems (Fecal Incontinence) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
    * Chronic Diarrhea: A Concern After Gallbladder Removal? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Viral Gastroenteritis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Specifics

    * Antibiotic-Associated Diarrhea (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Chronic Diarrhea (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Travelers' Diarrhea (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: congenital sucrase-isomaltase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: microvillus inclusion disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: trichohepatoenteric syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Diarrhea ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Dysentery ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: The Safe Start trial to assess the effect of an infant...
    * Article: Current and emerging pharmacological approaches for treating diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome.
    * Article: Vaccines for preventing rotavirus diarrhoea: vaccines in use.
    * Diarrhea -- see more articles
    * Dysentery -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
    * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * Chronic Diarrhea in Children ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
    * Diarrhea (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Stool Tests (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Vomiting and Diarrhea (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish

## Older Adults

    * Eldercare at Home: Diarrhea (AGS Foundation for Health in Aging)

## Patient Handouts

    * Diarrhea (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Diarrhea in infants (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Diet - clear liquid (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Fecal culture (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Traveler's diarrhea diet (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * When you or your child has diarrhea (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Diarrhea](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Diarrhea.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Diarrhea
    * Diarrhea - what to ask your doctor - adult
    * Diarrhea - what to ask your doctor - child
    * Diarrhea in infants
    * Diet - clear liquid
    * Enteroscopy
    * Fecal culture
    * Fecal smear
    * Traveler's diarrhea diet
    * When you or your child has diarrhea
    * When your child has diarrhea

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

    * Clostridium Difficile Infections
    * Foodborne Illness
    * Gastroenteritis
    * Rotavirus Infections
    * Traveler's Health

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Diarrhea is the National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Diarrhea_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 20 July 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

