Link: https://medlineplus.gov/cerebralpalsy.html    
                                Description: Cerebral palsy, CP happens when areas of the brain that control movement and posture do not develop correctly or get damaged. Treatment can improve.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Cerebral Palsy

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/cerebralpalsy.html

#  Cerebral Palsy

Also called: CP

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Health Check Tools

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Cerebral palsy is a group of disorders that affect a person's ability to move
and to maintain balance and posture. The disorders appear in the first few
years of life. Usually they do not get worse over time. People with cerebral
palsy may have difficulty walking. They may also have trouble with tasks such
as writing or using scissors. Some have other medical conditions, including
seizure disorders or mental impairment.

Cerebral palsy happens when the areas of the brain that control movement and
posture do not develop correctly or get damaged. Early signs of cerebral palsy
usually appear before 3 years of age. Babies with cerebral palsy are often
slow to roll over, sit, crawl, smile, or walk. Some babies are born with
cerebral palsy; others get it after they are born.

There is no cure for cerebral palsy, but treatment can improve the lives of
those who have it. Treatment includes medicines, braces, and physical,
occupational and speech therapy.

NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Start Here

    * 11 Things to Know about Cerebral Palsy (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Birth Defects: Cerebral Palsy (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Cerebral Palsy (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Cerebral Palsy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) \- Short Summary

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Botulinum Toxin Injections: A Treatment for Muscle Spasms (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Dressing with Ease, Style and Comfort (ALS Association) \- PDF
    * Employees with Cerebral Palsy (Office of Disability Employment Policy)
    * Hypertonia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Spasticity ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)

## Specifics

    * Ataxic Cerebral Palsy (For Parents) Also in Spanish
    * Dyskinetic Cerebral Palsy (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Spastic Cerebral Palsy (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Health Check Tools

    * Cerebral Palsy (CP) Quiz (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Cerebral Palsy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Does well-functioning hand constraint induce stress in forced-use therapy for children...
    * Article: Hip displacement and dislocation in a total population of children with...
    * Article: Efficacy and safety of core stability training on gait of children...
    * Cerebral Palsy -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation Also in Spanish
    * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Children

    * Cerebral Palsy (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Cerebral Palsy Checklist: Babies & Preschoolers (Birth to age 5) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Cerebral Palsy Checklist: Big Kids (6 to 12) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Dietary Needs for Kids With Cerebral Palsy (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

    * Cerebral Palsy (For Teens) (Nemours Foundation)
    * Cerebral Palsy Checklist: Teens & Young Adult (13 to 21) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Cerebral palsy (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Swallowing problems (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Cerebral Palsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CerebralPalsy.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Cerebral palsy
    * Swallowing problems

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Cerebral Palsy is the National
Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 31 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

