Link: https://medlineplus.gov/congenitalheartdefects.html    
                                Description: Congenital heart defects, problems with the structure of the heart, are the most common type of birth defect. Learn about diagnosis and treatment.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Congenital Heart Defects

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/congenitalheartdefects.html

#  Congenital Heart Defects

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Women
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

A congenital heart defect is a problem with the structure of the heart. It is
present at birth. Congenital heart defects are the most common type of birth
defect. The defects can involve the walls of the heart, the valves of the
heart, and the arteries and veins near the heart. They can disrupt the normal
flow of blood through the heart. The blood flow can slow down, go in the wrong
direction or to the wrong place, or be blocked completely.

Doctors use a physical exam and special heart tests to diagnose congenital
heart defects. They often find severe defects during pregnancy or soon after
birth. Signs and symptoms of severe defects in newborns include

    * Rapid breathing
    * Cyanosis - a bluish tint to the skin, lips, and fingernails
    * Fatigue
    * Poor blood circulation

Many congenital heart defects cause few or no signs and symptoms. They are
often not diagnosed until children are older.

Many children with congenital heart defects don't need treatment, but others
do. Treatment can include medicines, catheter procedures, surgery, and heart
transplants. The treatment depends on the type of the defect, how severe it
is, and a child's age, size, and general health.

NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Start Here

    * About Congenital Heart Defects (American Heart Association)
    * Congenital Heart Defects and CCHD (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation)
    * Facts about Congenital Heart Defects (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Tricuspid Atresia (Nemours Foundation)
    * What Are Congenital Heart Defects? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Heart Health Tests: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Pulse Oximetry (American Thoracic Society) \- PDF
    * Screening for Critical Congenital Heart Disease in Newborns (American Heart Association)

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Therapeutic Cardiac Catheterizations for Children with Congenital Heart Disease (American Heart Association) \- PDF
    * What Is a Heart Transplant? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Living With

    * Care and Treatment for Congenital Heart Defects (American Heart Association)
    * Challenges Faced by Parents of Children with Congenital Heart Disease (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish
    * Feeding Tips for Your Baby with CHD (American Heart Association)
    * Living with a Congenital Heart Defect (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Related Issues

    * Congenital Heart Defects and Physical Activity (American Heart Association)
    * Heart Murmurs and Your Child (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Infective Endocarditis (American Heart Association)
    * What Is a Heart Murmur? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Specifics

    * Aortic Valve Stenosis (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Arrhythmogenic Right Ventricular Dysplasia (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Atrioventricular Canal Defect (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Coarctation of the Aorta (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Congenitally Corrected Transposition of the Great Arteries (CCTGA) (Adult Congenital Heart Association)
    * Coronary Artery Anomalies (Texas Heart Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Cyanosis (Texas Heart Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Double Outlet Right Ventricle (Texas Heart Institute)
    * Facts about Atrial Septal Defect (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Facts about Atrioventricular Septal Defect (AVSD) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Facts about Coarctation of the Aorta (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Facts about dextro-Transposition of the Great Arteries (d-TGA) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Facts about Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Facts about Pulmonary Atresia (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Facts about Tetralogy of Fallot (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Facts about Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Return or TAPVR (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Facts about Truncus Arteriosis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Facts about Ventricular Septal Defect (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Learning about Velocardiofacial Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Human Genome Research Institute)
    * Noonan Syndrome (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)
    * Patent Foramen Ovale (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Pulmonary Atresia (Texas Heart Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Pulmonary Valve Stenosis (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Single Ventricle Defects (American Heart Association)
    * Spontaneous Coronary Artery Dissection (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Connection (TAPVC) (American Heart Association)
    * Transposition of the Greater Arteries (TGA) (Society of Thoracic Surgeons)
    * Tricuspid Atresia (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Ventricular Septal Defect (VSD) (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)

## Genetics

    * Genetic Counseling for Congenital Heart Defects (American Heart Association)
    * Genetics Home Reference: 22q11.2 deletion syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Alagille syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: CantÃº syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Char syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: CHARGE syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: critical congenital heart disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Holt-Oram syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: McKusick-Kaufman syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: MED13L syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Noonan syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: oculofaciocardiodental syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: recombinant 8 syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Simpson-Golabi-Behmel syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: supravalvular aortic stenosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Timothy syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Statistics and Research

    * Data and Statistics on Congenital Heart Defects (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- In English and Spanish
    * Heart Disease and Stroke Statistics (American Heart Association)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Heart Defects, Congenital ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Heart Murmurs ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: A new mutational hotspot in the SKI gene in the context...
    * Article: Irbesartan in Marfan syndrome (AIMS): a double-blind, placebo-controlled randomised trial.
    * Article: Features of Marfan syndrome not listed in the Ghent nosology -...
    * Congenital Heart Defects -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Heart and Stroke Encyclopedia (American Heart Association)
    * How the Heart Works ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Find an Expert

    * American Heart Association
    * National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * 22q11.2 Deletion Syndrome (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)
    * Atrial Septal Defect (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)
    * Congenital Heart Defects (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)
    * Heart Murmurs (For Kids) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Preparing Children for Heart Surgery (American Heart Association)
    * Ventricular Septal Defect (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * What Is a Pediatric Heart Surgeon? (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

    * Atrial Septal Defect (For Teens) (Nemours Foundation)
    * Coarctation of the Aorta (For Teens) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Ventricular Septal Defect (For Teens) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Women

    * CHD's Impact on Females (American Heart Association)
    * Heart Conditions and Pregnancy: Know the Risks (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Q and A: Birth Control for Women with Congenital Heart Disease (Adult Congenital Heart Association)

## Patient Handouts

    * Atrial septal defect (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Bicuspid aortic valve (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Congenital heart defect corrective surgeries (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Congenital heart disease (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Cyanotic heart disease (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Dextrocardia (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Echocardiogram -- children (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Heart murmurs and other sounds (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Patent ductus arteriosus (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Ventricular septal defect (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Congenital Heart
Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CongenitalHeartDefects.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Aarskog syndrome
    * Absent pulmonary valve
    * Anomalous left coronary artery from the pulmonary artery
    * Aortopulmonary window
    * Atrial septal defect
    * Bicuspid aortic valve
    * Chest x-ray
    * Coarctation of the aorta
    * Congenital heart defect corrective surgeries
    * Congenital heart disease
    * Coronary artery fistula
    * Cyanotic heart disease
    * Dextrocardia
    * Double aortic arch
    * Double inlet left ventricle
    * Double outlet right ventricle
    * Ebstein anomaly
    * Eisenmenger syndrome
    * Endocardial cushion defect
    * Heart murmurs and other sounds
    * Hypoplastic left heart syndrome
    * Left heart catheterization
    * Patent ductus arteriosus
    * Patent foramen ovale
    * Pediatric heart surgery
    * Pediatric heart surgery - discharge
    * Pulmonary atresia
    * Pulmonary valve stenosis
    * Tetralogy of Fallot
    * Total anomalous pulmonary venous return
    * Transposition of the great vessels
    * Tricuspid atresia
    * Truncus arteriosus
    * Vascular ring
    * Ventricular septal defect

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

    * Birth Defects
    * Cardiomyopathy
    * Heart Diseases
    * Heart Health Tests

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Congenital Heart Defects is the
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 13 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 21 August 2019

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

