Link: https://medlineplus.gov/depression.html    
                                Description: Depression is a serious medical illness. It affects almost 7 percent of U.S. adults. It causes feelings of sadness, hopelessness, and frustration that do not go away. Learn about treatments.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Depression

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/depression.html

#  Depression

Also called: Clinical depression, Dysthymic disorder, Major depressive
disorder, Unipolar depression

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Health Check Tools

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Men
    * Women
    * Older Adults
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Depression is a serious medical illness. It's more than just a feeling of
being sad or "blue" for a few days. If you are one of the more than 19 million
teens and adults in the United States who have depression, the feelings do not
go away. They persist and interfere with your everyday life. Symptoms can
include

    * Feeling sad or "empty"
    * Loss of interest in favorite activities
    * Overeating, or not wanting to eat at all
    * Not being able to sleep, or sleeping too much
    * Feeling very tired
    * Feeling hopeless, irritable, anxious, or guilty
    * Aches or pains, headaches, cramps, or digestive problems
    * Thoughts of death or suicide

Depression is a disorder of the brain. There are a variety of causes,
including genetic, biological, environmental, and psychological factors.
Depression can happen at any age, but it often begins in teens and young
adults. It is much more common in women. Women can also get postpartum
depression after the birth of a baby. Some people get seasonal affective
disorder in the winter. Depression is one part of bipolar disorder.

There are effective treatments for depression, including antidepressants, talk
therapy, or both.

NIH: National Institute of Mental Health

## Start Here

    * Depression (Major Depressive Disorder) (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Depression Basics ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Mental Health)
    * Help With Depression (American Psychiatric Association)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Depression Screening ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * 5 Tips: What You Should Know about the Science behind Depression and Complementary Health Approaches ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Antidepressants: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Antipsychotic drugs a last resort for these 5 conditions (ADHD, Anxiety, Depression, Insomnia and PTSD) (Consumers Union of U.S.)
    * Brain Stimulation Therapies ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Mental Health)
    * Depression Treatment (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Psychotherapies ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Mental Health)
    * St. John's Wort and Depression ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Therapy and Counseling (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish

## Living With

    * Depression and Anxiety: Exercise Eases Symptoms (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Depression: Supporting a Family Member or Friend (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Alzheimer's or Depression: Could It Be Both? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Chronic Illness & Mental Health ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Mental Health) Also in Spanish
    * Coping with Unexpected Events: Depression and Trauma (Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance)
    * Depression and Anxiety in Migraine Patients (American Migraine Foundation)
    * Depression in African Americans (Mental Health America)

## Specifics

    * Atypical Depression (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Depression (PDQ) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Depression and Alzheimer's Disease (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Depression and Caregiving (Family Caregiver Alliance) Also in Spanish
    * Depression in the Workplace (Mental Health America)
    * Lupus and Depression: Know the Signs and How to Get Help (Lupus Foundation of America)
    * Persistent Depressive Disorder (PDD) formerly Dysthymic Disorder (American Academy of Family Physicians)
    * Treatment-Resistant Depression (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * What Does the Term "Clinical Depression" Mean? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: depression ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Health Check Tools

    * Depression Screening: Questionnaire (Department of Veterans Affairs)

## Statistics and Research

    * Depression in Older Adults (Mental Health America)
    * Major Depression Among Adults ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Mental Health)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Depression ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Dysthymic Disorder ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Prophylactic cognitive enhancers for improvement of cognitive function in patients undergoing...
    * Article: Ketamine a dissociative anesthetic: Neurobiology and biomolecular exploration in depression.
    * Article: Family-Based Interpersonal Psychotherapy: An Intervention for Preadolescent Depression.
    * Depression -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * American Psychiatric Association
    * Behavioral Health Treatment Services Locator (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration)
    * Find Your Local NAMI (NAMI)
    * Help for Mental Illnesses ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Mental Health)
    * National Institute of Mental Health ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
    * Psychologist Locator (American Psychological Association)

## Children

    * Sadness and Depression (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Taking Your Child to a Therapist (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Men

    * Male Depression: Understanding the Issues (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Men and Depression ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Mental Health) Also in Spanish

## Women

    * Depression (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health) Also in Spanish
    * Depression and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Depression in Women: 5 Things You Should Know ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Mental Health)
    * Depression in Women: Understanding the Gender Gap (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Older Adults

    * Older Adults and Depression ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Mental Health) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Depression (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Depression - elderly (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Depression - stopping your medicines (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Dysthymia (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Heart disease and depression (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Learning about depression (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Major depression (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Major depression with psychotic features (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Depression](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Depression.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Depression
    * Depression - elderly
    * Depression - stopping your medicines
    * Dysthymia
    * Electroconvulsive therapy
    * Heart disease and depression
    * Learning about depression
    * Major depression
    * Major depression with psychotic features

## Related Health Topics

    * Antidepressants
    * Bipolar Disorder
    * Mental Disorders
    * Mood Disorders
    * Postpartum Depression
    * Seasonal Affective Disorder
    * Suicide
    * Teen Depression

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Depression is the National
Institute of Mental Health

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Depression_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 3 April 2020 Topic last reviewed: 4 November 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

