Link: https://medlineplus.gov/hydrocephalus.html    
                                Description: Hydrocephalus is the buildup of too much cerebrospinal fluid in the brain. It can be present at birth, or happen later. Read about causes, treatment.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Hydrocephalus

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/hydrocephalus.html

#  Hydrocephalus

Also called: Water on the brain

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Older Adults
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Hydrocephalus is the buildup of too much cerebrospinal fluid in the brain.
Normally, this fluid cushions your brain. When you have too much, though, it
puts harmful pressure on your brain.

Hydrocephalus can be congenital, or present at birth. Causes include genetic
problems and problems with how the fetus develops. An unusually large head is
the main sign of congenital hydrocephalus.

Hydrocephalus can also happen after birth. This is called acquired
hydrocephalus. It can occur at any age. Causes can include head injuries,
strokes, infections, tumors, and bleeding in the brain. Symptoms include

    * Headache
    * Vomiting and nausea
    * Blurry vision
    * Balance problems
    * Bladder control problems
    * Thinking and memory problems

Hydrocephalus can permanently damage the brain, causing problems with physical
and mental development. If untreated, it is usually fatal. With treatment,
many people lead normal lives with few limitations. Treatment usually involves
surgery to insert a shunt. A shunt is a flexible but sturdy plastic tube. The
shunt moves the cerebrospinal fluid to another area of the body where it can
be absorbed. Medicine and rehabilitation therapy can also help.

NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Start Here

    * Hydrocephalus (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Hydrocephalus ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Computed Tomography (CT) -- Head ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) -- Head ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * Ultrasound: Head (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Hydrocephalus and Shunts (Spina Bifida Association of America) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Dandy-Walker Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) Also in Spanish
    * Normal Pressure Hydrocephalus ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) Also in Spanish

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: Dandy-Walker malformation ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: L1 syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: megalencephaly-polymicrogyria-polydactyly-hydrocephalus syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Images

    * Craniotomy - slideshow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Ventriculoperitoneal shunt - slideshow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Statistics and Research

    * Facts and Stats - Hydrocephalus Association

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hydrocephalus ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Idiopathic Normal Pressure Hydrocephalus (Hakim-Adams Syndrome): Clinical Symptoms, Diagnosis and Treatment.
    * Article: Nowhere to Go: The Challenge of Health Care Transition for Youth...
    * Article: Acute hydrocephalus secondary to traumatic perimesencephalic pneumocephalus: A case report.
    * Hydrocephalus -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Children

    * Hydrocephalus (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Precocious Puberty (Spina Bifida Association of America) \- PDF
    * VP Shunts (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)

## Older Adults

    * Normal Pressure Hydrocephalus (NPH) (Alzheimer's Association)

## Patient Handouts

    * Brain surgery (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Hydrocephalus (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH) (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Ventriculoperitoneal shunt (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Ventriculoperitoneal shunt - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Hydrocephalus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hydrocephalus.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Brain herniation
    * Brain surgery
    * Brain surgery - discharge
    * Cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) collection
    * Craniotomy - slideshow
    * Fontanelles - bulging
    * Head CT scan
    * Head MRI
    * Hydrocephalus
    * Normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH)
    * Radionuclide cisternogram
    * Transillumination
    * Ventriculoperitoneal shunt
    * Ventriculoperitoneal shunt - discharge
    * Ventriculoperitoneal shunt - slideshow

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

    * Brain Malformations
    * Chiari Malformation

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Hydrocephalus is the National
Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 14 February 2020 Topic last reviewed: 27 September 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

