Link: https://medlineplus.gov/cleftlipandpalate.html    
                                Description: During early pregnancy stages your child may develop cleft lip or cleft palate. Find out when you should have surgery to fix the cleft lip and palate.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Cleft Lip and Palate

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/cleftlipandpalate.html

#  Cleft Lip and Palate

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Cleft lip and cleft palate are birth defects that occur when a baby's lip or
mouth do not form properly. They happen early during pregnancy. A baby can
have a cleft lip, a cleft palate, or both.

A cleft lip happens if the tissue that makes up the lip does not join
completely before birth. This causes an opening in the upper lip. The opening
can be a small slit or a large opening that goes through the lip into the
nose. It can be on one or both sides of the lip or, rarely, in the middle of
the lip.

Children with a cleft lip also can have a cleft palate. The roof of the mouth
is called the "palate." With a cleft palate, the tissue that makes up the roof
of the mouth does not join correctly. Babies may have both the front and back
parts of the palate open, or they may have only one part open.

Children with a cleft lip or a cleft palate often have problems with feeding
and talking. They also might have ear infections, hearing loss, and problems
with their teeth.

Often, surgery can close the lip and palate. Cleft lip surgery is usually done
before age 12 months, and cleft palate surgery is done before 18 months. Many
children have other complications. They may need additional surgeries, dental
and orthodontic care, and speech therapy as they get older. With treatment,
most children with clefts do well and lead a healthy life.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Start Here

    * Cleft Lip and Cleft Palate (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Cleft Lip and Cleft Palate (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Facts about Cleft Lip and Cleft Palate (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Introduction to Cleft & Craniofacial Conditions (Cleft Palate Foundation)
    * Orofacial Clefts (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Bone Grafting the Cleft Maxilla (Cleft Palate Foundation)
    * Cleft Lip and Palate Surgery (American Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons) \- PDF
    * Treatment for Adults (with Cleft Lip and Palate) (Cleft Palate Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Living With

    * Cleft Lip/Cleft Palate: Feeding Your Child (Nemours Foundation)
    * Dental Care for a Child with Cleft Lip and Palate (Cleft Palate Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * What about Breastfeeding? (Cleft Palate Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Help with Hearing (Cleft Palate Foundation) \- PDF

## Specifics

    * 22q11.2 Deletion Syndrome (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)
    * Cleft Lip (Nemours Foundation)
    * Cleft Palate (Nemours Foundation)
    * Cleft Palate With Cleft Lip (Nemours Foundation)
    * Learning about Velocardiofacial Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Human Genome Research Institute)
    * Replacing a Missing Tooth (Cleft Palate Foundation) \- PDF
    * Speech Development (Cleft Palate Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: 22q11.2 deletion syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: ankyloblepharon-ectodermal defects-cleft lip/palate syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: focal dermal hypoplasia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Opitz G/BBB syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Peters plus syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: popliteal pterygium syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: RAPADILINO syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Roberts syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: van der Woude syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Images

    * Cleft lip repair - slideshow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Cleft Lip ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Cleft Palate ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Staged Abbe-Rhinoplasty Technique to Correct Bilateral Cleft Deformity.
    * Article: A Review of 30 Years of Alveolar Bone Grafting in the...
    * Article: The Reducing Opioid Use in Children with Clefts Protocol: A Multidisciplinary...
    * Cleft Lip and Palate -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
    * National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Patient Handouts

    * Cleft lip and palate (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Cleft lip and palate repair (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Cleft lip and palate repair - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Cleft Lip and Palate](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CleftlipandPalate.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Aarskog syndrome
    * Cleft lip and palate
    * Cleft lip and palate repair
    * Cleft lip and palate repair - discharge
    * Cleft lip repair - slideshow

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Cleft Lip and Palate is the
National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 14 February 2020 Topic last reviewed: 1 June 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

