Link: https://medlineplus.gov/guillainbarresyndrome.html    
                                Description: Guillain-Barre Syndrome (GBS) causes your immune system to attack your peripheral nervous system. Learn about the causes, symptoms, and what can help.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Guillain-Barre Syndrome

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/guillainbarresyndrome.html

#  Guillain-Barre Syndrome

Also called: Acute idiopathic polyneuritis, Acute inflammatory polyneuropathy,
Infectious polyneuritis, Landry-Guillain-Barre syndrome

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Guillain-Barre syndrome is a rare disorder that causes your immune system to
attack your peripheral nervous system (PNS). The PNS nerves connect your brain
and spinal cord with the rest of your body. Damage to these nerves makes it
hard for them to transmit signals. As a result, your muscles have trouble
responding to your brain. No one knows what causes the syndrome. Sometimes it
is triggered by an infection, surgery, or a vaccination.

The first symptom is usually weakness or a tingling feeling in your legs. The
feeling can spread to your upper body. In severe cases, you become almost
paralyzed. This is life-threatening. You might need a respirator to breathe.
Symptoms usually worsen over a period of weeks and then stabilize.

Guillain-Barre can be hard to diagnose. Possible tests include nerve tests and
a spinal tap. Most people recover. Recovery can take a few weeks to a few
years. Treatment can help symptoms, and may include medicines or a procedure
called plasma exchange.

NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Start Here

    * Guillain-Barre Syndrome (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Guillain-BarrÃ© Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) \- Short Summary
    * Guillain-BarrÃ© Syndrome Fact Sheet ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) Analysis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Guillain-BarrÃ© Syndrome (GBS) and Flu Vaccine (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Guillain-BarrÃ© Syndrome and Menactra Meningococcal Vaccine (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Zika and Guillain-BarrÃ© Syndrome (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Chronic Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyneuropathy (CIDP) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) Also in Spanish
    * Miller Fisher Syndrome (GBS/CIDP Foundation International) \- PDF
    * Miller Fisher Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: Guillain-BarrÃ© syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Guillain-Barre Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Guillain-BarrÃ© Syndrome.
    * Article: Therapeutic Plasma Exchange in Guillain-Barre Syndrome and chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy.
    * Article: Author response: Surgery and risk of Guillain-BarrÃ© syndrome: A French nationwide...
    * Guillain-Barre Syndrome -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * American Autoimmune Related Diseases Association
    * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Children

    * Caring for a Child with Guillain-BarrÃ© Syndrome or CIDP (GBS/CIDP Foundation International) \- PDF

## Patient Handouts

    * Cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) collection (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Guillain-Barre syndrome (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Guillain-Barre Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Guillain-
BarreSyndrome.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) collection
    * Guillain-Barre syndrome

## Related Health Topics

    * Autoimmune Diseases
    * Paralysis
    * Peripheral Nerve Disorders

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Guillain-Barre Syndrome is the
National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 October 2019 Topic last reviewed: 1 February 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

