Link: https://medlineplus.gov/fetalalcoholspectrumdisorders.html    
                                Description: Drinking alcohol while pregnant can result in fetal alcohol spectrum disorders. The most severe is fetal alcohol syndrome. Learn the risks and more.      
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/fetalalcoholspectrumdisorders.html

#  Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders

Also called: FASD

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Health Check Tools

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Alcohol can harm your baby at any stage during a pregnancy. That includes the
earliest stages, before you even know you are pregnant. Drinking during
pregnancy can cause a group of conditions called fetal alcohol spectrum
disorders (FASDs). Children who are born with FASD can have a mix of problems,
such as medical, behavioral, educational, and social problems. The kinds of
problems they have depend on which type of FASD they have. The problems could
include

    * Abnormal facial features, such as a smooth ridge between the nose and upper lip
    * Small head size
    * Shorter-than-average height
    * Low body weight
    * Poor coordination
    * Hyperactive behavior
    * Difficulty with attention and memory
    * Learning disabilities and difficulty in school
    * Speech and language delays
    * Intellectual disability or low IQ
    * Poor reasoning and judgment skills
    * Sleep and sucking problems as a baby
    * Vision or hearing problems
    * Problems with the heart, kidneys, or bones

Fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) is the most serious type of FASD. People with
fetal alcohol syndrome have facial abnormalities, including wide-set and
narrow eyes, growth problems and nervous system abnormalities.

Diagnosing FASD can be hard because there is no specific test for it. The
health care provider will make a diagnosis by looking at the child's signs and
symptoms and asking whether the mother drank alcohol during pregnancy.

FASDs last a lifetime. There is no cure for FASDs, but treatments can help.
These include medicines to help with some symptoms, medical care for health
problems, behavior and education therapy, and parent training. A good
treatment plan is specific to the child's problems. It should include close
monitoring, follow-ups, and changes when needed.

Certain "protective factors" can help reduce the effects of FASDs and help
people who have them reach their full potential. They include

    * Diagnosis before 6 years of age
    * Loving, nurturing, and stable home environment during the school years
    * Absence of violence around them
    * Involvement in special education and social services

There is no known safe amount of alcohol during pregnancy. To prevent FASDs,
you should not drink alcohol while you are pregnant, or when you might get
pregnant.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Start Here

    * Basics About Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders (FASDs) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Fetal Alcohol Exposure ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)
    * Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders (FASDs) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders (FASDs): Diagnosis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders (FASDs): Treatments (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Living With

    * Strategies for Daily Living (National Organization on Fetal Alcohol Syndrome)

## Related Issues

    * CDC Vital Signs: Alcohol and Pregnancy (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Fetal Alcohol Syndrome (American Association for Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus)

## Specifics

    * Fetal Alcohol Syndrome (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish

## Health Check Tools

    * Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders (FASDs): Alcohol Use Quiz (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Statistics and Research

    * 18 Percent of Pregnant Women Drink Alcohol during Early Pregnancy (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration) \- PDF
    * Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders (FASDs): Data and Statistics (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: The cost-effectiveness of screening tools used in the diagnosis of fetal...
    * Article: Early-Life Predictors of Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders.
    * Article: Deficits in arithmetic error detection in infants with prenatal alcohol exposure:...
    * Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Behavioral Health Treatment Services Locator (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration)
    * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
    * March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation Also in Spanish
    * National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
    * National Organization on Fetal Alcohol Syndrome

## Children

    * What Is Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders (FASDs) and Why Is It Important That I Know about It? (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Patient Handouts

    * Fetal alcohol syndrome (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Fetal Alcohol Spectrum
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FetalAlcoholSpectrumDisorders.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Fetal alcohol syndrome

## Related Health Topics

    * Alcohol Use Disorder (AUD)
    * Pregnancy and Drug Use

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders
is the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 16 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 31 August 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

