Link: https://medlineplus.gov/insomnia.html    
                                Description: Have trouble falling asleep, staying asleep, or both? You may have insomnia, a common sleep disorder. Learn about symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Insomnia

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/insomnia.html

#  Insomnia

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * No links available

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Women
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is insomnia?

Insomnia is a common sleep disorder. If you have it, you may have trouble
falling asleep, staying asleep, or both. As a result, you may get too little
sleep or have poor-quality sleep. You may not feel refreshed when you wake up.

### What are the types of insomnia?

Insomnia can be acute (short-term) or chronic (ongoing). Acute insomnia is
common. Common causes include stress at work, family pressures, or a traumatic
event. It usually lasts for days or weeks.

Chronic insomnia lasts for a month or longer. Most cases of chronic insomnia
are secondary. This means they are the symptom or side effect of some other
problem, such as certain medical conditions, medicines, and other sleep
disorders. Substances such as caffeine, tobacco, and alcohol can also be a
cause.

Sometimes chronic insomnia is the primary problem. This means that it is not
caused by something else. Its cause is not well understood, but long-lasting
stress, emotional upset, travel and shift work can be factors. Primary
insomnia usually lasts more than one month.

### Who is at risk for insomnia?

Insomnia is common. It affects women more often than men. You can get it at
any age, but older adults are more likely to have it. You are also at higher
risk of insomnia if you

    * Have a lot of stress
    * Are depressed or have other emotional distress, such as divorce or death of a spouse
    * Have a lower income
    * Work at night or have frequent major shifts in your work hours
    * Travel long distances with time changes
    * Have an inactive lifestyle
    * Are African American; research shows that African Americans take longer to fall asleep, don't sleep as well, and have more sleep-related breathing problems than whites.

### What are the symptoms of insomnia?

Symptoms of insomnia include:

    * Lying awake for a long time before you fall asleep
    * Sleeping for only short periods
    * Being awake for much of the night
    * Feeling as if you haven't slept at all
    * Waking up too early

### What other problems can insomnia cause?

Insomnia can cause daytime sleepiness and a lack of energy. It also can make
you feel anxious, depressed, or irritable. You may have trouble focusing on
tasks, paying attention, learning, and remembering. Insomnia also can cause
other serious problems. For example, it could make you may feel drowsy while
driving. This could cause you get into a car accident.

### How is insomnia diagnosed?

To diagnose insomnia, your health care provider

    * Takes your medical history
    * Asks for your sleep history. Your provider will ask you for details about your sleep habits.
    * Does a physical exam, to rule out other medical problems that might cause insomnia
    * May recommend a sleep study. A sleep study measures how well you sleep and how your body responds to sleep problems.

### What are the treatments for insomnia?

Treatments include lifestyle changes, counseling, and medicines:

    * Lifestyle changes, including good sleep habits, often help relieve acute (short-term) insomnia. These changes might make it easier for you to fall asleep and stay asleep.
    * A type of counseling called cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) can help relieve the anxiety linked to chronic (ongoing) insomnia
    * Several medicines also can help relieve your insomnia and allow you to re-establish a regular sleep schedule

If your insomnia is the symptom or side effect of another problem, it's
important to treat that problem (if possible).

NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Start Here

    * Insomnia (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Insomnia (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * What Is Insomnia? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Antipsychotic drugs a last resort for these 5 conditions (ADHD, Anxiety, Depression, Insomnia and PTSD) (Consumers Union of U.S.)
    * Insomnia (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Insomnia (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Sleep Disorders: In Depth ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Sleeping Pills for Insomnia: Which Ones Work Best? (Consumers Union of U.S.)
    * Taking Z-drugs for Insomnia? Know the Risks (Food and Drug Administration) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Sleep Initiation and Maintenance Disorders ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Sleeping Pills ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Efficacy and safety of Chinese herbal medicine Long Dan Xie Gan...
    * Article: Acupoint catgut embedding for insomnia: Protocol for a systematic review and...
    * Article: Guizhi Gancao Longgu Muli decoction for insomnia: A protocol for a...
    * Insomnia -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * American Academy of Sleep Medicine
    * Find a Sleep Center Near You (American Academy of Sleep Medicine)
    * National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Women

    * Insomnia (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Changing your sleep habits (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Insomnia (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Medicines for sleep (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Insomnio](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Insomnia.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Can't sleep? Try these tips
    * Changing your sleep habits
    * Insomnia
    * Medicines for sleep

## Related Health Topics

    * Healthy Sleep
    * Sleep Disorders

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Insomnia is the National Heart,
Lung, and Blood Institute

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Insomnia_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 1 November 2019 Topic last reviewed: 17 March 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

