Link: https://medlineplus.gov/retinaldetachment.html    
                                Description: The retina is in the back of your eye. It senses light and sends images to your brain. A detachment (pulling away) is an emergency. Know the symptoms.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Retinal Detachment

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/retinaldetachment.html

#  Retinal Detachment

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Symptoms
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

The retina is a layer of tissue in the back of your eye that senses light and
sends images to your brain. It provides the sharp, central vision needed for
reading, driving, and seeing fine detail. A retinal detachment lifts or pulls
the retina from its normal position. It can occur at any age, but it is more
common in people over age 40. It affects men more than women and whites more
than African Americans. A retinal detachment is also more likely to occur in
people who

    * Are extremely nearsighted
    * Have had a retinal detachment in the other eye
    * Have a family history of retinal detachment
    * Have had cataract surgery
    * Have other eye diseases or disorders
    * Have had an eye injury

Symptoms include an increase in the number of floaters, which are little
"cobwebs" or specks that float about in your field of vision, and/or light
flashes in the eye. It may also seem like there is a "curtain" over your field
of vision.

A retinal detachment is a medical emergency. If not promptly treated, it can
cause permanent vision loss. If you have any symptoms, see an eye care
professional immediately. Treatment includes different types of surgery.

NIH: National Eye Institute

## Start Here

    * Retinal Detachment ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Eye Institute)

## Symptoms

    * Retinal Detachment: Torn or Detached Retina Symptoms (American Academy of Ophthalmology) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Dilating Eye Drops (American Association for Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus)
    * Retinal Detachment: Torn or Detached Retina Diagnosis (American Academy of Ophthalmology) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Retinal detachment repair - slideshow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Retinal Detachment: Torn or Detached Retina Treatment (American Academy of Ophthalmology) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Facts about Floaters ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Eye Institute)
    * Vitreous Detachment ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Eye Institute)

## Specifics

    * Complex Retinal Detachment (American Society of Retina Specialists)

## Images

    * Flashes and Floaters (Logical Images)
    * Retinal Detachment Vision Simulator (American Academy of Ophthalmology) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Retinal Detachment ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Characteristics of diabetic macular edema patients with serous retinal detachment.
    * Article: Steam roller maneuver in pneumatic retinopexy. Does it work?
    * Article: The black veil: Caring for patients with retinal detachments.
    * Retinal Detachment -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Finding an Eye Doctor ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Eye Institute) Also in Spanish
    * National Eye Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Patient Handouts

    * Retinal detachment (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Retinal detachment repair (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Desprendimiento de
retina](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RetinalDetachment.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Retinal detachment
    * Retinal detachment repair
    * Retinal detachment repair - slideshow

## Related Health Topics

    * Retinal Disorders

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Retinal Detachment is the
National Eye Institute

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Retinal
Detachment_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 27 December 2019 Topic last reviewed: 31 August 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

