Link: https://medlineplus.gov/psoriasis.html    
                                Description: Psoriasis is a skin disease that causes itchy or sore patches of thick, red skin with silvery scales. Some people also get psoriasis arthritis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Psoriasis

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/psoriasis.html

#  Psoriasis

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Women
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Psoriasis is a skin disease that causes itchy or sore patches of thick, red
skin with silvery scales. You usually get the patches on your elbows, knees,
scalp, back, face, palms and feet, but they can show up on other parts of your
body. Some people who have psoriasis also get a form of arthritis called
psoriatic arthritis.

A problem with your immune system causes psoriasis. In a process called cell
turnover, skin cells that grow deep in your skin rise to the surface.
Normally, this takes a month. In psoriasis, it happens in just days because
your cells rise too fast.

Psoriasis can be hard to diagnose because it can look like other skin
diseases. Your doctor might need to look at a small skin sample under a
microscope.

Psoriasis can last a long time, even a lifetime. Symptoms come and go. Things
that make them worse include

    * Infections
    * Stress
    * Dry skin
    * Certain medicines

Psoriasis usually occurs in adults. It sometimes runs in families. Treatments
include creams, medicines, and light therapy.

NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases

## Start Here

    * About Psoriasis (National Psoriasis Foundation)
    * Itchy, Scaly Skin? Living with Psoriasis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * Psoriasis (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Psoriasis (American Academy of Dermatology)
    * Spotlight on Psoriasis: Preventing Patches of Itchy, Sore Skin ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
    * What Is Psoriasis? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Phototherapy (Logical Images)

## Living With

    * Psoriasis Diet: Can Changing Your Diet Treat Psoriasis? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Scalp Psoriasis vs. Seborrheic Dermatitis: What's the Difference? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Psoriatic Arthritis: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: generalized pustular psoriasis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Images

    * Psoriasis (Logical Images)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Psoriasis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Bimekizumab in patients with active psoriatic arthritis: results from a 48-week,...
    * Article: Drugs for psoriatic arthritis.
    * Article: Next-generation analysis of synovial tissue architecture.
    * Psoriasis -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Find a Dermatologist (American Academy of Dermatology)
    * National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Children

    * Psoriasis (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

    * Psoriasis (Children's Hospital Boston)

## Women

    * Psoriasis/Psoriatic Arthritis and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF \- In English and Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Psoriasis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Psoriasis - guttate (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Psoriasis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Psoriasis.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Exfoliative dermatitis
    * Psoriasis
    * Psoriasis - guttate

## Related Health Topics

    * Psoriatic Arthritis

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Psoriasis is the National
Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases

## NIH MedlinePlus Magazine

    * Psoriasis Doesn't Slow Down Texan Brian LaFoy
    * Psoriasis: On the Road to Discovery
    * Questions & Answers about Psoriasis

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 29 January 2020 Topic last reviewed: 20 February 2019

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

