Link: https://medlineplus.gov/dentures.html    
                                Description: Dentures are false teeth made to replace lost teeth. Dentures can be partial or complete. Read more about how to properly care for and adjust to them.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Dentures

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/dentures.html

#  Dentures

Also called: False teeth

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Dentures are false teeth made to replace teeth you have lost. They can be
complete or partial. Complete dentures cover your entire upper or lower jaw.
Partials replace one or a few teeth.

Dentures may feel strange at first. Speaking and eating may feel different. Be
careful when wearing dentures because they may make it harder for you to feel
hot foods and liquids. Also, you may not notice biting on a bone from your
food.

In the beginning, your dentist may want to see you often to make sure the
dentures fit. Over time, your mouth will change and you may need to have your
dentures adjusted or replaced. Be sure to let your dentist handle these
adjustments.

If your dentures move too much in your mouth, denture adhesive may help. In
some cases, your dentist may suggest that you switch to dental implants. They
are permanent, and they replace both the roots and teeth.

Keep your dentures clean and free from food that can cause stains, bad breath,
or swollen gums. Brush them every day with a denture care product. Take your
dentures out of your mouth at night, and put them in water or a denture-
cleansing liquid.

NIH: National Institute on Aging

## Start Here

    * Taking Care of Your Teeth and Mouth ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Panoramic Dental X-Ray (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Denture Adhesives (Food and Drug Administration)
    * Denture Care: How Do I Clean Dentures? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Peri-Implant Diseases (American Academy of Periodontology)

## Specifics

    * Dental Implant Surgery (American Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons)
    * Dental Implant Surgery (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Dental Implants ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Dentures ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Bone Loss in the Posterior Edentulous Mandible with Implant-Supported Overdentures vs...
    * Article: Chewing ability and oral health-related quality of life in frail elders...
    * Article: Stabilizing Removable Partial Dentures by Immediate or Delayed Loading of Mini-implants:...
    * Dentures -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Glossary of Dental Terms (Academy of General Dentistry)
    * Oral Health Glossary (Academy of General Dentistry)

## Find an Expert

    * National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Denture problems (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Dentures](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dentures2.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Denture problems

## Related Health Topics

    * Dental Health
    * Tooth Disorders

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Dentures is the National
Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Dentures_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 20 February 2020 Topic last reviewed: 2 April 2015

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

