Link: https://medlineplus.gov/diverticulosisanddiverticulitis.html    
                                Description: Most people with diverticulosis don&#39;t have symptoms. If the Diverticula become inflamed or infected, that is a condition called diverticulitis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Diverticulosis and Diverticulitis

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/diverticulosisanddiverticulitis.html

#  Diverticulosis and Diverticulitis

Also called: Diverticular disease

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Diverticula are small pouches that bulge outward through the colon, or large
intestine. If you have these pouches, you have a condition called
diverticulosis. It becomes more common as people age. About half of all people
over age 60 have it. Doctors believe the main cause is a low-fiber diet.

Most people with diverticulosis don't have symptoms. Sometimes it causes mild
cramps, bloating or constipation. Diverticulosis is often found through tests
ordered for something else. For example, it is often found during a
colonoscopy to screen for cancer. A high-fiber diet and mild pain reliever
will often relieve symptoms.

If the pouches become inflamed or infected, you have a condition called
diverticulitis. The most common symptom is abdominal pain, usually on the left
side. You may also have fever, nausea, vomiting, chills, cramping, and
constipation. In serious cases, diverticulitis can lead to bleeding, tears, or
blockages. Your doctor will do a physical exam and imaging tests to diagnose
it. Treatment may include antibiotics, pain relievers, and a liquid diet. A
serious case may require a hospital stay or surgery.

NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Start Here

    * Diverticular Disease (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Diverticulitis (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Diverticulosis and Diverticulitis (American College of Gastroenterology)
    * Diverticulosis and Diverticulitis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Abdominal and Pelvic CT ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * Abdominal exploration - slideshow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Colonoscopy: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Fecal Occult Blood Test (FOBT) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Lower GI Series (Barium Enema) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Colon diverticula - slideshow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Colostomy - slideshow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Treatment for Diverticular Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish

## Living With

    * Dietary Fiber: Essential for a Healthy Diet (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Diverticulitis Diet (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Diverticulitis Diet: Can Certain Foods Trigger an Attack? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Fiber: How to Increase the Amount in Your Diet (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Diverticula, Diverticulosis, Diverticulitis: What's the Difference? (International Foundation for Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Diverticular Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Diverticulitis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Diverticulum, Colon ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Possible increased risk of colonic diverticular disease from alcohol intoxication or...
    * Article: Complicated Diverticulitis.
    * Article: Is laparoscopic lavage safe in purulent diverticulitis versus colonic resection? A...
    * Diverticulosis and Diverticulitis -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * American Society of Colon and Rectal Surgeons
    * Find a Gastroenterologist (American College of Gastroenterology)
    * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Patient Handouts

    * Bland diet (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Colonoscopy (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Diverticulitis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Diverticulitis and diverticulosis - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Diverticulosis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Large bowel resection - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Low-fiber diet (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Lower GI Series ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
    * Virtual colonoscopy (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Diverticulosis and
Diverticulitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiverticulosisandDiverticulitis.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Abdominal CT scan
    * Abdominal exploration
    * Abdominal exploration - slideshow
    * Barium enema
    * Bland diet
    * Bloody or tarry stools
    * Colon diverticula - slideshow
    * Colonoscopy
    * Colostomy - slideshow
    * Diverticulitis
    * Diverticulitis - what to ask your doctor
    * Diverticulitis and diverticulosis - discharge
    * Diverticulosis
    * Large bowel resection - discharge
    * Low-fiber diet
    * Pelvic CT scan
    * Total colectomy or proctocolectomy - discharge
    * Virtual colonoscopy

Show More Show Less

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Diverticulosis and Diverticulitis
is the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Diverticulosis and
Diverticulitis_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 28 January 2020 Topic last reviewed: 5 July 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

