Link: https://medlineplus.gov/peripheralarterialdisease.html    
                                Description: Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) happens when there is a narrowing of the blood vessels outside of your heart. Learn about symptoms and treatment.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Peripheral Arterial Disease

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/peripheralarterialdisease.html

#  Peripheral Arterial Disease

Also called: PAD

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) happens when there is a narrowing of the
blood vessels outside of your heart. The cause of PAD is atherosclerosis. This
happens when plaque builds up on the walls of the arteries that supply blood
to the arms and legs. Plaque is a substance made up of fat and cholesterol. It
causes the arteries to narrow or become blocked. This can reduce or stop blood
flow, usually to the legs. If severe enough, blocked blood flow can cause
tissue death and can sometimes lead to amputation of the foot or leg.

The main risk factor for PAD is smoking. Other risk factors include older age
and diseases like diabetes, high blood cholesterol, high blood pressure, heart
disease, and stroke.

Many people who have PAD don't have any symptoms. If you have symptoms, they
may include

    * Pain, numbness, achiness, or heaviness in the leg muscles. This happens when walking or climbing stairs.
    * Weak or absent pulses in the legs or feet
    * Sores or wounds on the toes, feet, or legs that heal slowly, poorly, or not at all
    * A pale or bluish color to the skin
    * A lower temperature in one leg than the other leg
    * Poor nail growth on the toes and decreased hair growth on the legs
    * Erectile dysfunction, especially among men who have diabetes

PAD can increase your risk of heart attack, stroke, and transient ischemic
attack.

Doctors diagnose PAD with a physical exam and heart and imaging tests.
Treatments include lifestyle changes, medicines, and sometimes surgery.
Lifestyle changes include dietary changes, exercise, and efforts to lower high
cholesterol levels and high blood pressure.

NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Start Here

    * About Peripheral Artery Disease (PAD) (American Heart Association)
    * Peripheral Artery Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)
    * Peripheral Artery Disease (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Ankle-Brachial Index (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * CT Angiography (CTA) (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * Doppler Ultrasound ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * MR Angiography (MRA) (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * Peripheral Angiogram (American Heart Association)
    * Screening for Peripheral Artery Disease (American Heart Association)
    * Screening for Peripheral Artery Disease and Cardiovascular Disease Risk Assessment with Ankle Brachial Index in Adults (U.S. Preventive Services Task Force) \- PDF
    * Ultrasound -- Vascular (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Understand Your Risk for PAD (American Heart Association)

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Angioplasty and Vascular Stenting (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * Angioplasty: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Buerger's Disease (Johns Hopkins Vasculitis Center)
    * Claudication (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Peripheral Arterial Disease and Claudication (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Peripheral Artery Disease and Diabetes (American Heart Association)
    * What Is the Difference between Pseudoclaudication and Claudication? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Critical Limb Ischemia (CLI) (Vascular Cures)
    * Facts about Peripheral Arterial Disease (P.A.D.) for African Americans ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute) \- PDF
    * Occlusive Peripheral Arterial Disease (Merck & Co., Inc.) Also in Spanish
    * Overview of Functional Peripheral Arterial Disease (Merck & Co., Inc.) Also in Spanish
    * Vascular Disorders (American Society for Surgery of the Hand)

## Images

    * Arterial bypass leg - slideshow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Intermittent Claudication ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Peripheral Arterial Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Peripheral Vascular Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Is 64-Row Multi-Detector Computed Tomography Angiography Equal to Digital Subtraction Angiography...
    * Article: ASSESSMENT OF QUALITY OF LIFE IN PATIENTS AFTER THE TREATMENT OF...
    * Article: An Overview of the Treatment of Symptomatic Common Femoral Artery Lesions...
    * Peripheral Arterial Disease -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Glossary (Vascular Cures)

## Find an Expert

    * American Heart Association
    * Find a Physician from the Society for Vascular Medicine (Society for Vascular Medicine)
    * National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Patient Handouts

    * Angioplasty and stent placement - peripheral arteries (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Angioplasty and stent placement - peripheral arteries - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Doppler ultrasound exam of an arm or leg (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Extremity angiography (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Ischemic ulcers -- self-care (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Peripheral artery bypass - leg (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Peripheral artery disease - legs (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Peripheral artery disease of the legs - self-care (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Peripheral Arterial
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeripheralArterialDisease.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Angioplasty and stent placement - peripheral arteries
    * Angioplasty and stent placement - peripheral arteries - discharge
    * Arterial bypass leg - slideshow
    * Arteriogram
    * Atheroembolic renal disease
    * Doppler ultrasound exam of an arm or leg
    * Duplex ultrasound
    * Extremity angiography
    * Ischemic ulcers -- self-care
    * Limb plethysmography
    * Magnetic resonance angiography
    * Peripheral artery bypass - leg
    * Peripheral artery bypass - leg - discharge
    * Peripheral artery disease - legs
    * Peripheral artery disease of the legs - self-care
    * Renovascular hypertension
    * Thromboangiitis obliterans

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

    * Atherosclerosis
    * Gangrene
    * Vascular Diseases

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Peripheral Arterial Disease is
the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Peripheral
Arterial Disease_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 11 February 2020 Topic last reviewed: 16 November 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

