Link: https://medlineplus.gov/primaryovarianinsufficiency.html    
                                Description: Primary ovarian insufficiency(POI) happens when a woman&#39;s ovaries stop working before she is 40. POI is different from premature menopause. Learn about the causes, and how to treat the symptoms and complications.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Primary Ovarian Insufficiency

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/primaryovarianinsufficiency.html

#  Primary Ovarian Insufficiency

Also called: Ovarian insufficiency, POF, POI, Premature ovarian failure

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Symptoms
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Teenagers
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is primary ovarian insufficiency (POI)?

Primary ovarian insufficiency (POI), also known as premature ovarian failure,
happens when a woman's ovaries stop working normally before she is 40.

Many women naturally experience reduced fertility when they are about 40 years
old. They may start getting irregular menstrual periods as they transition to
menopause. For women with POI, irregular periods and reduced fertility start
before the age of 40. Sometimes it can start as early as the teenage years.

POI is different from premature menopause. With premature menopause, your
periods stop before age 40. You can no longer get pregnant. The cause can be
natural or it can be a disease, surgery, chemotherapy, or radiation. With POI,
some women still have occasional periods. They may even get pregnant. In most
cases of POI, the cause is unknown.

### What causes primary ovarian insufficiency (POI)?

In about 90 percent of cases, the exact cause of POI is unknown.

Research shows that POI is related to problems with the follicles. Follicles
are small sacs in your ovaries. Your eggs grow and mature inside them. One
type of follicle problem is that you run out of working follicles earlier than
normal. Another is that the follicles are not working properly. In most cases,
the cause of the follicle problem is unknown. But sometimes the cause may be

    * Genetic disorders such as Fragile X syndrome and Turner syndrome
    * A low number of follicles
    * Autoimmune diseases, including thyroiditis and Addison disease
    * Chemotherapy or radiation therapy
    * Metabolic disorders
    * Toxins, such as cigarette smoke, chemicals, and pesticides

### Who is at risk for for primary ovarian insufficiency (POI)?

Certain factors can raise a woman's risk of POI:

    * **Family history.** Women who have a mother or sister with POI are more likely to have it.
    * **Genes.** Some changes to genes and genetic conditions put women at higher risk for POI. For example, women Fragile X syndrome or Turner syndrome are at higher risk.
    * **Certain diseases,** such as autoimmune diseases and viral infections
    * **Cancer treatments,** such as chemotherapy and radiation therapy
    * **Age.** Younger women can get POI, but it becomes more common between the ages of 35-40.

### What are the symptoms of primary ovarian insufficiency (POI)?

The first sign of POI is usually irregular or missed periods. Later symptoms
may be similar to those of natural menopause:

    * Hot flashes
    * Night sweats
    * Irritability
    * Poor concentration
    * Decreased sex drive
    * Pain during sex
    * Vaginal dryness

For many women with POI, trouble getting pregnant or infertility is the reason
they go to their health care provider.

### What other problems can primary ovarian insufficiency (POI) cause?

Since POI causes you to have lower levels of certain hormones, you are at
greater risk for other health conditions, including

    * **Anxiety and depression.** Hormonal changes caused by POI can contribute to anxiety or lead to depression.
    * **Dry eye syndrome and eye surface disease.** Some women with POI have one of these eye conditions. Both can cause discomfort and may lead to blurred vision. If not treated, these conditions can cause permanent eye damage.
    * **Heart disease.** Lower levels of estrogen can affect the muscles lining the arteries and can increase the buildup of cholesterol in the arteries. These factors increase your risk of atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries).
    * **Infertility.**
    * **Low thyroid function.** This problem also is called hypothyroidism. The thyroid is a gland that makes hormones that control your body's metabolism and energy level. Low levels thyroid hormones can affect your metabolism and can cause very low energy, mental sluggishness, and other symptoms.
    * **Osteoporosis.** The hormone estrogen helps keep bones strong. Without enough estrogen, women with POI often develop osteoporosis. It is a bone disease that causes weak, brittle bones that are more likely to break.

### How is primary ovarian insufficiency (POI) diagnosed?

To diagnose POI, your health care provider may do

    * **A medical history,** including asking whether you have relatives with POI
    * **A pregnancy test,** to make sure that you are not pregnant
    * **A physical exam,** to look for signs of other disorders which could be causing your symptoms
    * **Blood tests,** to check for certain hormone levels. You may also have a blood test to do a chromosome analysis. A chromosome is the part of a cell that contains genetic information.
    * **A pelvic ultrasound,** to see whether or not the ovaries are enlarged or have multiple follicles

### How is primary ovarian insufficiency (POI) treated?

Currently, there is no proven treatment to restore normal function to a
woman's ovaries. But there are treatments for some of the symptoms of POI.
There are also ways to lower your health risks and treat the conditions that
POI can cause:

    * **Hormone replacement therapy (HRT).** HRT is the most common treatment. It gives your body the estrogen and other hormones that your ovaries are not making. HRT improves sexual health and decreases the risks for heart disease and osteoporosis. You usually take it until about age 50; that's about the age when menopause usually begins.
    * **Calcium and vitamin D supplements.** Because women with POI are at higher risk for osteoporosis, you should take calcium and vitamin D every day.
    * **In vitro fertilization (IVF).** If you have POI and you wish to become pregnant, you may consider trying IVF.
    * **Regular physical activity and a healthy body weight.** Getting regular exercise and controlling your weight can lower your risk for osteoporosis and heart disease.
    * **Treatments for associated conditions.** If you have a condition that is related to POI, it is important to treat that as well. Treatments may involve medicines and hormones.

NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development

## Start Here

    * Primary Ovarian Insufficiency (Hormone Health Network)
    * Primary Ovarian Insufficiency (POI) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development)

## Symptoms

    * What Are the Symptoms of Primary Ovarian Insufficiency (POI)? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Estrogen Levels Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Follicle-Stimulating Hormone (FSH) Levels Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * How Do Health Care Providers Diagnose Primary Ovarian Insufficiency (POI)? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
    * Luteinizing Hormone (LH) Levels Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * What Are the Treatments for Primary Ovarian Insufficiency (POI)? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Are There Disorders or Conditions Associated with Primary Ovarian Insufficiency (POI)? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
    * What Causes POI? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Genetics

    * Fragile X-Associated Primary Ovarian Insufficiency (FXPOI) (National Fragile X Foundation)
    * Fragile X-Associated Primary Ovarian Insufficiency (FXPOI): Condition Information ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
    * Genetics Home Reference: fragile X-associated primary ovarian insufficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Statistics and Research

    * Hormone Treatment Restores Bone Density for Young Women with Menopause-Like Condition (Primary Ovarian Insufficiency) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Primary Ovarian Insufficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Chinese herbal medicine for premature ovarian insufficiency: A protocol for systematic...
    * Article: Analysis of NR5A1 in 142 patients with premature ovarian insufficiency, diminished...
    * Article: The Impact of Chemotherapy on the Ovaries: Molecular Aspects and the...
    * Primary Ovarian Insufficiency -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
    * Find an Endocrinologist (Hormone Health Network)

## Teenagers

    * Primary Ovarian Insufficiency (POI) (Children's Hospital Boston)

## Patient Handouts

    * Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) blood test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Luteinizing hormone (LH) blood test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Ovarian hypofunction (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Premature Ovarian
Failure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PrematureOvarianFailure.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) blood test
    * Luteinizing hormone (LH) blood test
    * Ovarian hypofunction

## Related Health Topics

    * Menopause
    * Menstruation

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Primary Ovarian Insufficiency is
the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human
Development

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 2 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 16 June 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

