Link: https://medlineplus.gov/bullyingandcyberbullying.html    
                                Description: Bullying is when a person or group repeatedly harms someone on purpose. Cyberbullying is bullying that happens through text messages or online. Both can cause lasting harm. Learn the signs of bullying, and how to help a child who is being bullied.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Bullying and Cyberbullying

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/bullyingandcyberbullying.html

#  Bullying and Cyberbullying

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Diagnosis and Tests
  * Prevention and Risk Factors

### Learn More

  * Living With
  * Related Issues
  * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

  * No links available

### Research

  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Teenagers

## Summary

### What is bullying?

Bullying is when a person or group repeatedly harms someone on purpose. It can
be physical, social, and/or verbal. It is harmful to both the victims and the
bullies, and it always involves

  * **Aggressive behavior.**
  * **A difference in power,** meaning that the victim is weaker or is seen as weaker. For example, bullies may try to use physical strength, embarrassing information, or popularity to harm others.
  * **Repetition,** meaning it happens more than once or that it probably will happen again

### What are the types of bullying?

There are three types of bullying:

  * **Physical bullying** involves hurting a person's body or belongings. Examples include hitting, kicking, and stealing or breaking someone's stuff.
  * **Social bullying** (also called relational bullying) hurts someone's reputation or relationships. Some examples are spreading rumors, embarrassing someone in public, and making someone feel left out.
  * **Verbal bullying** is saying or writing mean things, including name-calling, taunting, and threatening

### What is cyberbullying?

Cyberbullying is bullying that happens through text messages or online. It
could be through emails, social media, forums, or gaming. Some examples are

  * Posting rumors on social media
  * Sharing embarrassing pictures or videos online
  * Sharing someone else's private information online (doxing)
  * Making threats against someone online
  * Creating fake accounts and posting information to embarrass someone

Certain types of cyberbullying can be illegal. The laws on cyberbullying are
different from state to state.

### How is cyberbullying different from bullying?

Cyberbullying is a type of bullying, but there are some differences between
the two. Cyberbullying can be

  * **Anonymous** \- people can hide their identities when they are online or using a cell phone
  * **Persistent** \- people can send messages instantly, at any time of the day or night
  * **Permanent** \- a lot of electronic communication is permanent and public, unless it's reported and removed. A bad online reputation can affect getting into college, getting a job, and other areas of life. This applies to the bully as well.
  * **Hard to notice** \- teachers and parents may not overhear or see cyberbullying taking place

### Who is at risk of being bullied?

Kids are at a higher risk of being bullied if they

  * Are seen as different from their peers, such as being overweight or underweight, dressing differently, or being of a different race/ethnicity
  * Are seen as weak
  * Have depression, anxiety, or low self-esteem
  * Don't have many friends or are less popular
  * Don't socialize well with others
  * Have an intellectual or developmental disability

### Who is at risk of being a bully?

There are two types of kids who are more likely to bully others:

  * Kids who are well-connected to peers, have social power, are overly worried about popularity, and like to be in charge of others
  * Kids who are more isolated from peers, may be depressed or anxious, have low self-esteem, are easily pressured by peers, and have trouble understanding other people's feelings

There are certain factors that make someone more likely to be a bully. They
include

  * Being aggressive or easily frustrated
  * Having trouble at home, such as violence or bullying in the home or having uninvolved parents
  * Having trouble following rules
  * Seeing violence positively
  * Having friends who bully others

### What are the effects of bullying?

Bullying is a serious problem that causes harm. And it doesn't just hurt the
person who is being bullied; it can also be harmful for the bullies and for
any kids who witness the bullying.

**Kids who are bullied** can have problems at school and with their mental and
physical health. They are at risk for

  * Depression, anxiety, and low self-esteem. These problems sometimes last into adulthood.
  * Health complaints, including headaches and stomachaches
  * Lower grades and test scores
  * Missing and dropping out of school

**Kids who bully others** have a higher risk for substance use, problems in
school, and violence later in life.

**Kids who witness bullying** are more likely to abuse drugs or alcohol and
have mental health problems. They may also miss or skip school.

### What are the signs of being bullied?

Often, kids who are being bullied don't report it. They may fear a backlash
from the bully, or they may think that no one cares. Sometimes they feel too
ashamed to talk about it. So it is important to know the signs of a bullying
problem:

  * Depression, loneliness, or anxiety
  * Low self-esteem
  * Headaches, stomachaches, or poor eating habits
  * Disliking school, not wanting to go to school, or getting worse grades than before
  * Self-destructive behaviors, such as running away from home, harming themselves, or talking about suicide
  * Unexplained injuries
  * Lost or destroyed clothing, books, electronics, or jewelry
  * Trouble sleeping or frequent nightmares
  * Sudden loss of friends or avoidance of social situations

### How do you help someone who is being bullied?

To help a child who is being bullied, support the child and address the
bullying behavior:

  * **Listen and focus on the child.** Learn what's been going on and show you want to help.
  * **Assure the child that bullying is not his/her fault**
  * **Know that kids who are bullied may struggle with talking about it.** Consider referring them to a school counselor, psychologist, or other mental health service.
  * **Give advice about what to do.** This may involve role-playing and thinking through how the child might react if the bullying occurs again.
  * **Work together to resolve the situation and protect the bullied child.** The child, parents, and school or organization should be part of the solution.
  * **Follow up.** Bullying may not end overnight. Make sure that the child knows that you are committed to making it stop.
  * **Make sure that the bully knows that his or her behavior is wrong and harms others**
  * **Show kids that bullying is taken seriously.** Make it clear to everyone that the bullying will not be tolerated.

Department of Health and Human Services

## Start Here

  * Bullying ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development)
  * Bullying: It's Not OK (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish
  * Dealing with Bullies (For Kids) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
  * Helping Kids Deal with Bullies (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
  * What Is Bullying? (Department of Health and Human Services) Also in Spanish
  * What is Cyberbullying? (Department of Health and Human Services) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Warning Signs for Bullying (Health Resources and Services Administration) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

  * How You Can Help Your Child Avoid & Address Bullying (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish
  * Prevent Cyberbullying (Department of Health and Human Services) Also in Spanish
  * Teaching Kids Not to Bully (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Living With

  * Dealing with Bullies (For Kids) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
  * Empowering Children to Cope with Teasing (Children's Craniofacial Association) \- PDF
  * Kids and Bullying (American Academy of Family Physicians)
  * Signs of Bullying: Important Questions for Parents to Ask (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish
  * Weight-based Teasing and Bullying in Children: How Parents Can Help (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

  * Kids and Socializing Online (Federal Trade Commission)
  * Kids Online (Federal Trade Commission) \- PDF
  * Protecting Your Child's Privacy Online (Federal Trade Commission) Also in Spanish
  * School Avoidance: Tips for Concerned Parents (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish
  * Talking to Kids and Teens About Social Media and Sexting (American Academy of Pediatrics)
  * Teaching Kids to Be Smart About Social Media (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
  * Understanding Mobile Apps (Federal Trade Commission)

## Specifics

  * Bullying and LGBTQ Youth (Health Resources and Services Administration) Also in Spanish
  * Bullying and Youth with Disabilities and Special Health Needs (Health Resources and Services Administration) Also in Spanish
  * Bullying Laws, Policies, and Regulations (Health Resources and Services Administration)
  * Cyberbullying: Important Information for Parents (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish
  * How Does Bullying Affect Health and Well-Being? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
  * Report Cyberbullying (Department of Health and Human Services) Also in Spanish
  * Tourette Syndrome: Help Stop Bullying (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Aggression ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Bullying ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: What if the bully is the manager?
  * Article: The Malaysian Workplace Bullying Index (MWBI): A new measure of workplace...
  * Article: Prevalence of psychological workplace violence among employees of a public tertiary...
  * Bullying and Cyberbullying -- see more articles
  * Cyberbullying -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

  * American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry
  * Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
  * National Institute of Mental Health ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Teenagers

  * Dealing with Bullying (For Teens) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
  * Sexual Harassment and Sexual Bulllying (For Teens) (Nemours Foundation)

## Topic Image

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CyberBullying.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## Related Health Topics

  * Child Mental Health
  * School Health
  * Teen Mental Health
  * Teen Violence

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 3 April 2020 Topic last reviewed: 23 May 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

