Link: https://medlineplus.gov/clinicaltrials.html    
                                Description: Did you ever wonder how doctors find out if a treatment is effective? Clinical trials test how well new medical approaches work in people. Read more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Clinical Trials

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/clinicaltrials.html

#  Clinical Trials

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Women
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Clinical trials are research studies that test how well new medical approaches
work in people. Each study answers scientific questions and tries to find
better ways to prevent, screen for, diagnose, or treat a disease. Clinical
trials may also compare a new treatment to a treatment that is already
available.

Every clinical trial has a protocol, or action plan, for conducting the trial.
The plan describes what will be done in the study, how it will be conducted,
and why each part of the study is necessary. Each study has its own rules
about who can take part. Some studies need volunteers with a certain disease.
Some need healthy people. Others want just men or just women.

An Institutional Review Board (IRB) reviews, monitors, and approves many
clinical trials. It is an independent committee of physicians, statisticians,
and members of the community. Its role is to

    * Make sure that the study is ethical
    * Protect the rights and welfare of the participants
    * Make sure that the risks are reasonable when compared to the potential benefits

In the United States, a clinical trial must have an IRB if it is studying a
drug, biological product, or medical device that the Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) regulates, or it is funded or carried out by the federal
government.

NIH: National Institutes of Health

## Start Here

    * Be a Partner in Clinical Research ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
    * Clinical Trial Basics ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * Clinical Trials ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)
    * Frequently Asked Questions about Clinical Research ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Human Genome Research Institute)
    * NIH Clinical Research Trials and You ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * What Are Clinical Trials and Studies? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging)

## Related Issues

    * Informed Consent (Clinical Trials) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Minorities in Clinical Trials Fact Sheet (Food and Drug Administration) Also in Spanish
    * Placebo Effect (American Academy of Neurology) \- PDF

## Specifics

    * Are Clinical Studies for You? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health, Clinical Center)
    * Cancer Clinical Trials at the National Institutes of Health Clinical Center ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Clinical Trials - Information for Participants ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Mental Health)
    * Clinical Trials: Benefits, Risks, and Safety ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging)
    * Participating in Alzheimer's Disease Research ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging)
    * Placebos in Clinical Trials ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging)
    * Volunteer Stories ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Statistics and Research

    * National Institutes of Health Clinical Alerts and Advisories ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Endpoint selection for noninferiority percutaneous coronary intervention trials: a methodological description.
    * Article: The influence of educational measures and low-level laser phototherapy on temporomandibular...
    * Article: Considerations and methods for placebo controls in surgical trials (ASPIRE guidelines).
    * Clinical Trials -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Glossary of Common Site Terms ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Find an Expert

    * ClinicalTrials.gov Background Information ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Search Clinical Trials ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * National Institutes of Health ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Women

    * Women in Clinical Trials ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (Food and Drug Administration) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * A guide to clinical trials for cancer (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Clinical Trials](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ClinicalTrials.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * A guide to clinical trials for cancer

## Related Health Topics

    * Understanding Medical Research

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Clinical Trials_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 20 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 18 May 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

