Link: https://medlineplus.gov/carotidarterydisease.html    
                                Description: In carotid artery disease, a waxy substance (plaque) clogs the arteries that bring blood to your brain and head. Find out how it cause a stroke.      
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Carotid Artery Disease

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/carotidarterydisease.html

#  Carotid Artery Disease

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * No links available

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Your carotid arteries are two large blood vessels in your neck. They supply
your brain and head with blood. If you have carotid artery disease, the
arteries become narrow or blocked, usually because of atherosclerosis.
Atherosclerosis is the buildup of plaque, which is made up of fat,
cholesterol, calcium, and other substances found in the blood.

Carotid artery disease is serious because it can block the blood flow to your
brain, causing a stroke. Too much plaque in the artery can cause a blockage.
You can also have a blockage when a piece of plaque or a blood clot breaks off
the wall of an artery. The plaque or clot can travel through the bloodstream
and get stuck in one of your brain's smaller arteries.

Carotid artery disease often does not cause symptoms until the blockage or
narrowing is severe. One sign may be a bruit (whooshing sound) that your
doctor hears when listening to your artery with a stethoscope. Another sign is
a transient ischemic attack (TIA), a "mini-stroke." A TIA is like a stroke,
but it only lasts a few minutes, and the symptoms usually go away within an
hour. Stroke is another sign.

Imaging tests can confirm whether you have carotid artery disease.

Treatments may include

    * Healthy lifestyle changes
    * Medicines
    * Carotid endarterectomy, surgery to remove the plaque
    * Angioplasty, a procedure to place a balloon and stent into the artery to open it and hold it open

NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Start Here

    * Carotid Artery Disease (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Carotid Artery Disease (Texas Heart Institute) Also in Spanish
    * What Is Carotid Artery Disease? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Carotid Artery Screening (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * Carotid Ultrasound Imaging (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * Doppler Ultrasound ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * MR Angiography (MRA) (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * Screening for Carotid Artery Stenosis (U.S. Preventive Services Task Force) \- PDF

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Carotid Angioplasty and Stenting (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Carotid Endarterectomy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)
    * Questions and Answers about Carotid Endarterectomy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)

## Images

    * Carotid artery surgery - slideshow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Carotid Artery Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Carotid Stenosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Endarterectomy, Carotid ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Quantitative analysis of revascularization in ischemic moyamoya disease via whole-brain computed...
    * Article: Carotid artery plaques and unilateral spatial neglect in the elderly.
    * Article: Association of Transcarotid Artery Revascularization vs Transfemoral Carotid Artery Stenting With...
    * Carotid Artery Disease -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * American Stroke Association
    * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Carotid artery disease (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Carotid artery stenosis -- self-care (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Carotid artery surgery (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Carotid artery surgery - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Carotid duplex (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Carotid Artery
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CarotidArteryDisease.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery
    * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery - discharge
    * Carotid artery disease
    * Carotid artery stenosis -- self-care
    * Carotid artery surgery
    * Carotid artery surgery - discharge
    * Carotid artery surgery - slideshow
    * Carotid duplex

## Related Health Topics

    * Atherosclerosis
    * Ischemic Stroke
    * Stroke
    * Transient Ischemic Attack

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Carotid Artery Disease is the
National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 18 October 2019 Topic last reviewed: 27 October 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

