Link: https://medlineplus.gov/pregnancyandopioids.html    
                                Description: There are risks to both you and your baby if you take opioids during pregnancy. Learn about these risks, what you should do if you get pregnant while taking opioids, and how opioid use disorders are treated in pregnancy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Pregnancy and Opioids

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/pregnancyandopioids.html

#  Pregnancy and Opioids

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * No links available

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Many women need to take medicines while they are pregnant. But not all
medicines are safe during pregnancy. Many medicines carry risks for you, your
baby, or both. Opioids, especially when misused, can cause problems for you
and your baby while you are pregnant.

### What are opioids?

Opioids, sometimes called narcotics, are a type of drug. They include strong
prescription pain relievers, such as oxycodone, hydrocodone, fentanyl, and
tramadol. The illegal drug heroin is also an opioid.

A health care provider may give you a prescription opioid to reduce pain after
you have had a major injury or surgery. You may get them if you have severe
pain from health conditions like cancer. Some health care providers prescribe
them for chronic pain.

Prescription opioids used for pain relief are generally safe when taken for a
short time and as prescribed by your health care provider. However, opioid
dependence, addiction, and overdose are still potential risks. These risks
increase when these medicines are misused. Misuse means you are not taking the
medicines according to your provider's instructions, you are using them to get
high, or you are taking someone else's opioids.

### What are the risks of taking opioids during pregnancy?

Taking opioids during pregnancy can cause problems for you and your baby. The
possible risks include

    * Neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS) - withdrawal symptoms (irritability, seizures, vomiting, diarrhea, fever, and poor feeding) in newborns
    * Neural tube defects \- birth defects of the brain, spine, or spinal cord
    * Congenital heart defects \- problems with the structure of the baby's heart
    * Gastroschisis - a birth defect of the baby's abdomen, where the intestines stick outside of the body through a hole beside the belly button
    * Loss of the baby, either miscarriage (before 20 weeks of pregnancy) or stillbirth (after 20 or more weeks)
    * Preterm delivery \- a birth before 37 weeks
    * Stunted growth, leading to low birthweight

Some women need to take opioid pain medicine while they are pregnant. If your
health care provider suggests that you take opioids during pregnancy, you
should first discuss the risks and benefits. Then if you both decide that you
need to take the opioids, you should work together to try to minimize the
risks. Some of the ways to do this include

    * Taking them for the shortest time possible
    * Taking the lowest dose that will help you
    * Carefully following your provider's instructions for taking the medicines
    * Contacting your provider if you have side effects
    * Going to all your follow-up appointments

### If I am already taking opioids and I become pregnant, what should I do?

If you have been taking opioids and you become pregnant, contact your health
care provider. You should not stop taking the opioids on your own. If you
suddenly stop taking opioids, it could cause severe health problems for you or
your baby. In some cases, stopping suddenly during pregnancy may be more
harmful than taking the medicines.

### Can I breastfeed while taking opioids?

Many women who regularly take opioid medicines can breastfeed. It depends on
which medicine you are taking. Check with your health care provider before
breastfeeding.

There are some women who should not breastfeed, such as those who have HIV or
take illegal drugs.

### What are the treatments for opioid use disorders in pregnancy?

If you are pregnant and have an opioid use disorder, do not stop taking
opioids suddenly. Instead, see your health care provider so you can get help.
The treatment for opioid use disorder is medication-assisted therapy (MAT).
MAT includes medicine and counseling:

    * **Medicine** can reduce your cravings and withdrawal symptoms. For pregnant women, health care providers use either buprenorphine or methadone.
    * **Counseling** , including behavioral therapies, which can help you
      * Change your attitudes and behaviors related to drug use
      * Build healthy life skills
      * Continue taking your medicine and getting prenatal care

## Start Here

    * Important Information About Opioid Use Disorder and Pregnancy (American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists)
    * Opioid Use During Pregnancy (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Pregnancy and Opioid Pain Medications (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Prescription Opioids during Pregnancy (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Treating Opioid Use Disorder During Pregnancy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse)

## Related Issues

    * Heroin and Pregnancy (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Childbirth, Breastfeeding and Infant Care: Methadone and Buprenorphine (American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists) \- PDF
    * Pregnancy: Methadone and Buprenorphine (American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists) \- PDF

## Statistics and Research

    * Buprenorphine During Pregnancy Reduces Neonate Distress ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse)
    * Dramatic Increases in Maternal Opioid Use and Neonatal Abstinence Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Infographic](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Infographic.gif) (National Institute on Drug Abuse)
    * Opioid Use and Neural Tube Defects (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Pregnancy and Opioids ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Methadone, Buprenorphine, or Detoxification for Management of Perinatal Opioid Use Disorder:...
    * Article: Decreasing Opioid Use Postpartum: A Quality Improvement Initiative.
    * Article: Benzhydrocodone/acetaminophen (Apadaz) for pain.
    * Pregnancy and Opioids -- see more articles

## Patient Handouts

    * Childbirth, Breastfeeding and Infant Care: Methadone and Buprenorphine (American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists) \- PDF
    * Neonatal abstinence syndrome (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Pregnancy and Opioid Pain Medications (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Pregnancy: Methadone and Buprenorphine (American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists) \- PDF

## Topic Image

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PregnancyandOpioids.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Infant of a substance-abusing mother
    * Neonatal abstinence syndrome

## Related Health Topics

    * Opioid Misuse and Addiction Treatment
    * Pregnancy and Drug Use
    * Pregnancy and Medicines
    * Safe Opioid Use

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Pregnancy and Opioids is the
National Institute on Drug Abuse

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Pregnancy and
Opioids_

## NIH MedlinePlus Magazine

    * Acting Now to Help Newborns with Opioid Withdrawal

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 22 May 2019 Topic last reviewed: 27 August 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

