Link: https://medlineplus.gov/opioidmisuseandaddiction.html    
                                Description: Opioid misuse and addiction are a serious public health problem in the U.S. Learn about the treatments, including medication-assisted therapy (MAT).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Opioid Misuse and Addiction

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/opioidmisuseandaddiction.html

#  Opioid Misuse and Addiction

Also called: Opioid Abuse and Addiction, Opioid Use Disorder

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images
    * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Opioids, sometimes called narcotics, are a type of drug. They include strong
prescription pain relievers, such as oxycodone, hydrocodone, fentanyl, and
tramadol. The illegal drug heroin is also an opioid. Some opioids are made
from the opium plant, and others are synthetic (man-made).

A doctor may give you a prescription opioid to reduce pain after you have had
a major injury or surgery. You may get them if you have severe pain from
health conditions like cancer. Some doctors prescribe them for chronic pain.

Opioids can cause side effects such as drowsiness, mental fog, nausea, and
constipation. They may also cause slowed breathing, which can lead to overdose
deaths. If someone has signs of an overdose, call 911:

    * The person's face is extremely pale and/or feels clammy to the touch
    * Their body goes limp
    * Their fingernails or lips have a purple or blue color
    * They start vomiting or making gurgling noises
    * They cannot be awakened or are unable to speak
    * Their breathing or heartbeat slows or stops

Other risks of using prescription opioids include dependence and addiction.
Dependence means feeling withdrawal symptoms when not taking the drug.
Addiction is a chronic brain disease that causes a person to compulsively seek
out drugs, even though they cause harm. The risks of dependence and addiction
are higher if you misuse the medicines. Misuse can include taking too much
medicine, taking someone else's medicine, taking it in a different way than
you are supposed to, or taking the medicine to get high.

Opioid misuse, addiction, and overdoses are serious public health problems in
the United States. Another problem is that more women are misusing opioids
during pregnancy. This can lead to babies being addicted and going through
withdrawal, known as neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS). Opioid misuse may
sometimes also lead to heroin use, because some people switch from
prescription opioids to heroin.

The main treatment for prescription opioid addiction is medication-assisted
treatment (MAT). It includes medicines, counseling, and support from family
and friends. MAT can help you stop using the drug, get through withdrawal, and
cope with cravings. There is also a medicine called naloxone which can reverse
the effects of an opioid overdose and prevent death, if it is given in time.

To prevent problems with prescription opioids, be sure to follow your doctor's
instructions when taking them. Do not share your medicines with anyone else.
Contact your doctor if you have any concerns about taking the medicines.

NIH: National Institute on Drug Abuse

## Start Here

    * Help, Resources and Information: National Opioids Crisis (Department of Health and Human Services)
    * Opioid Addiction (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Opioid Overdose Crisis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish
    * Understanding the Opioid Epidemic (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Drug Testing ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Mental Health Screening ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Opioid Testing ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Signs of Painkiller Abuse and Addiction ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Opioid Overdose Prevention: Safety Advice for Patients & Family Members (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration) \- PDF
    * What to Ask Your Doctor Before Taking Opioids (Food and Drug Administration) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Opioid Abuse and Addiction Treatment: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Benzodiazepines and Opioid ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse)
    * Know Your Options (to Manage Your Pain Without Opioids) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Specifics

    * Fentanyl (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Fentanyl ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse)
    * Heroin: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Hydromorphone (Drug Enforcement Administration)
    * OxyContin (Partnership for a Drug-Free America)
    * Painkiller (Oxy, Vike) Facts ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish
    * Prescription Opioids (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Prescription Pain Relievers (Opiods) (Partnership for a Drug-Free America)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: opioid addiction ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Images

    * Hydrocodone (Drug Enforcement Administration)
    * Narcotics (Drug Enforcement Administration)

## Videos and Tutorials

    * How Naloxone Saves Lives in Opioid Overdose ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Statistics and Research

    * Abuse of Prescription Pain Medications Risks Heroin Use ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Infographic](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Infographic.gif) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) \- PDF
    * Although Relatively Few, "Doctor Shoppers" Skew Opioid Prescribing ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse)
    * An Ambitious Research Plan to Help Solve the Opioid Crisis: HEAL Initiative ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse)
    * CDC Vital Signs: Opioid Painkiller Prescribing (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Data Overview: Overview of an Epidemic (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Facing Addition in America: The Surgeon General's Spotlight on Opioids (Surgeon General) \- PDF
    * Gene Variants Reduce Opioid Risks ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse)
    * Opioid Summaries by State ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse)
    * Statement on Public-Private Partnerships as Part of the NIH HEAL Initiative ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Opioid Dependence and Addiction ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: How Not to Spend an Opioid Settlement.
    * Article: The Role of a Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist Led Acute Pain...
    * Article: Management of dependent use of illicit opioids.
    * Opioid Misuse and Addiction -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Commonly Used Opioid Terms (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Find an Expert

    * Behavioral Health Treatment Services Locator (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration)
    * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
    * Drug Enforcement Administration
    * Food and Drug Administration
    * National Institute on Drug Abuse ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
    * Partnership at Drugfree.org (Partnership for a Drug-Free America)
    * Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration

## Children

    * Fentanyl Patch Can Be Deadly to Children (Food and Drug Administration) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

    * Mind Matters: The Body's Response to Opioids ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse)
    * Misuse of Prescription Pain Relievers: The Buzz Takes Your Breath Away. Permanently. (Food and Drug Administration)
    * Prescription Pain Medications (Opioids) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish
    * Teens Mix Prescription Opioids with Other Substances ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Infographic](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Infographic.gif) (National Institute on Drug Abuse)

## Patient Handouts

    * Opiate and opioid withdrawal (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Opioid intoxication (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Opioid Abuse and
Addiction](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OpioidAbuseandAddiction.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Acetaminophen and codeine overdose
    * Codeine overdose
    * Hydrocodone and acetaminophen overdose
    * Hydrocodone/oxycodone overdose
    * Hydromorphone overdose
    * Methadone overdose
    * Morphine overdose
    * Opiate and opioid withdrawal
    * Opioid intoxication

## Related Health Topics

    * Heroin
    * Opioid Misuse and Addiction Treatment
    * Opioid Overdose
    * Pregnancy and Opioids
    * Prescription Drug Misuse
    * Safe Opioid Use

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Opioid Misuse and Addiction is
the National Institute on Drug Abuse

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Opioid Misuse and
Addiction_

## NIH MedlinePlus Magazine

    * Fighting the Opioid Crisis: NIH HEAL Initiative Takes on Addiction and Pain Management
    * Opioid Crisis: An Overview
    * Renewal and Recovery after Opioid Dependence

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 3 April 2020 Topic last reviewed: 18 April 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

