Link: https://medlineplus.gov/vldlcholesterol.html    
                                Description: Like LDL, VLDL (very-low-density lipoprotein) cholesterol is a bad cholesterol. Both can lead to a buildup of cholesterol in your arteries. Learn how you can lower your VLDL cholesterol.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

VLDL Cholesterol

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/vldlcholesterol.html

#  VLDL Cholesterol

## Summary

### What is cholesterol?

Cholesterol is a waxy, fat-like substance that's found in all the cells in
your body. Your liver makes cholesterol, and it is also in some foods, such as
meat and dairy products. Your body needs some cholesterol to work properly.
But having too much cholesterol in your blood raises your risk of coronary
artery disease.

### What is VLDL cholesterol?

VLDL stands for very-low-density lipoprotein. Your liver makes VLDL and
releases it into your bloodstream. The VLDL particles mainly carry
triglycerides, another type of fat, to your tissues. VLDL is similar to LDL
cholesterol, but LDL mainly carries cholesterol to your tissues instead of
triglycerides.

VLDL and LDL are sometimes called "bad" cholesterols because they can
contribute to the buildup of plaque in your arteries. This buildup is called
atherosclerosis. The plaque that builds up is a sticky substance made up of
fat, cholesterol, calcium, and other substances found in the blood. Over time,
the plaque hardens and narrows your arteries. This limits the flow of oxygen-
rich blood to your body. It can lead to coronary artery disease and other
heart diseases.

### How do I know what my VLDL level is?

There isn't a way to directly measure your VLDL level. Instead, you will most
likely get a blood test to measure your triglyceride level. The lab can use
your triglyceride level to estimate what your VLDL level is. Your VLDL is
about one-fifth of your triglyceride level. However, estimating your VLDL this
way does not work if your triglyceride level is very high.

### What should my VLDL level be?

Your VLDL level should be less than 30 mg/dL (milligrams per deciliter).
Anything higher than that puts you at risk for heart disease and stroke.

### How can I lower my VLDL level?

Since VLDL and triglycerides are linked, you can lower VLDL level by lowering
your triglyceride level. You may be able to lower your triglycerides with a
combination of losing weight, diet, and exercise. It is important to switch to
healthy fats, and cut back on sugar and alcohol. Some people may also need to
take medicines.

## Learn More

    * Cholesterol Levels ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Cholesterol Levels: What You Need to Know: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Dietary fats explained (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * How to Lower Cholesterol: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * How to Prevent Heart Disease: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Triglyceride level (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: hepatic lipase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Plaque Calcification: Do Lipoproteins Have a Role?
    * Article: Revisiting the Role of LXRs in PUFA Metabolism and Phospholipid Homeostasis.
    * Article: A randomized, controlled trial on the effects of almonds on lipoprotein...
    * VLDL Cholesterol -- see more articles

## Topic Image

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Triglycerides.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## Related Health Topics

    * Cholesterol
    * Cholesterol Medicines
    * Dietary Fats
    * HDL: The "Good" Cholesterol
    * LDL: The "Bad" Cholesterol
    * Triglycerides

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on VLDL Cholesterol is the National
Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 27 February 2019 Topic last reviewed: 29 March 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

