Link: https://medlineplus.gov/neuraltubedefects.html    
                                Description: Neural tube defects are birth defects of the brain, spine, or spinal cord. They happen in the first month of pregnancy. Learn how to prevent them.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Neural Tube Defects

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/neuraltubedefects.html

#  Neural Tube Defects

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Neural tube defects are birth defects of the brain, spine, or spinal cord.
They happen in the first month of pregnancy, often before a woman even knows
that she is pregnant. The two most common neural tube defects are spina bifida
and anencephaly. In spina bifida, the fetal spinal column doesn't close
completely. There is usually nerve damage that causes at least some paralysis
of the legs. In anencephaly, most of the brain and skull do not develop.
Babies with anencephaly are usually either stillborn or die shortly after
birth. Another type of defect, Chiari malformation, causes the brain tissue to
extend into the spinal canal.

The exact causes of neural tube defects aren't known. You're at greater risk
of having an infant with a neural tube defect if you

    * Have obesity
    * Have poorly controlled diabetes
    * Take certain antiseizure medicines

Getting enough folic acid, a type of B vitamin, before and during pregnancy
prevents most neural tube defects.

Neural tube defects are usually diagnosed before the infant is born, through
lab or imaging tests. There is no cure for neural tube defects. The nerve
damage and loss of function that are present at birth are usually permanent.
However, a variety of treatments can sometimes prevent further damage and help
with complications.

NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development

## Start Here

    * Neural Tube Defects (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation)
    * What Are Neural Tube Defects? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * How Do Health Care Providers Diagnose Neural Tube Defects? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
    * Second Trimester Maternal Serum Screening (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Folic Acid: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * What Are the Treatments for Neural Tube Defects? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Are There Disorders or Conditions Associated with Neural Tube Defects? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Anencephaly ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Cephalic Disorders ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) \- Short Summary
    * Cephalic Disorders ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) Also in Spanish
    * Encephaloceles ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Facts about Anencephaly (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Facts about Encephalocele (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Hydranencephaly ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Iniencephaly ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Tethered Spinal Cord Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: anencephaly ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: spina bifida ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Statistics and Research

    * How Many People Are Affected By or Are at Risk for Neural Tube Defects? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Anencephaly ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Arnold-Chiari Malformation ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Neural Tube Defects ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Onset and Resolution of Chiari Malformations and Hydrocephalus in Syndromic Craniosynostosis...
    * Article: A Comparative Analysis of Bladder Pattern of Patients who Underwent In...
    * Article: A Comparison of Dressing Techniques for Presurgical Closure of Myelomeningocele in...
    * Neural Tube Defects -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
    * Find a Genetic Counselor (National Society of Genetic Counselors)
    * Find a Pediatrician or Pediatric Specialist (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish
    * March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation Also in Spanish
    * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Anencephaly (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Neural Tube Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NeuralTubeDefects.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Alpha fetoprotein
    * Anencephaly

## Related Health Topics

    * Brain Malformations
    * Chiari Malformation
    * Hydrocephalus
    * Spina Bifida

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Neural Tube Defects is the
National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 6 February 2020 Topic last reviewed: 29 September 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

