Link: https://medlineplus.gov/cysticfibrosis.html    
                                Description: Cystic fibrosis (CF) is an inherited disease of the mucus and sweat glands. The symptoms and severity of CF can vary. Get the facts.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Cystic Fibrosis

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/cysticfibrosis.html

#  Cystic Fibrosis

Also called: CF

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Teenagers
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is an inherited disease of the mucus and sweat glands. It
affects mostly your lungs, pancreas, liver, intestines, sinuses, and sex
organs. CF causes your mucus to be thick and sticky. The mucus clogs the
lungs, causing breathing problems and making it easy for bacteria to grow.
This can lead to repeated lung infections and lung damage.

The symptoms and severity of CF can vary. Some people have serious problems
from birth. Others have a milder version of the disease that doesn't show up
until they are teens or young adults. Sometimes you will have few symptoms,
but later you may have more symptoms.

CF is diagnosed through various tests, such as gene, blood, and sweat tests.
There is no cure for CF, but treatments have improved greatly in recent years.
In the past, most deaths from CF were in children and teenagers. Today, with
improved treatments, some people who have CF are living into their forties,
fifties, or older. Treatments may include chest physical therapy, nutritional
and respiratory therapies, medicines, and exercise.

NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Start Here

    * About Cystic Fibrosis (Cystic Fibrosis Foundation)
    * Cystic Fibrosis (American Lung Association)
    * What is Cystic Fibrosis? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * CF Mutation Panel (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
    * Chymotrypsin Test (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
    * Cystic Fibrosis (CF) Respiratory Screen: Sputum (Nemours Foundation)
    * Cystic Fibrosis: Prenatal Screening and Diagnosis (American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists)
    * Newborn Screening for CF (Cystic Fibrosis Foundation)
    * Stool Elastase ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Sweat Test for Cystic Fibrosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Trypsinogen Test (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Cystic Fibrosis and Pregnancy (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Drug Development Pipeline (Cystic Fibrosis Foundation)
    * Therapies for Cystic Fibrosis (Cystic Fibrosis Foundation)

## Living With

    * Airway Clearance Techniques (ACTs) ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Cystic Fibrosis Foundation)
    * Basics of Postural Drainage and Percussion (Cystic Fibrosis Foundation)
    * Dietary Tips for Kids With Cystic Fibrosis (Nemours Foundation)
    * Exercise and Cystic Fibrosis (CF) (Cystic Fibrosis Foundation) \- PDF
    * Pulmonary Rehabilitation: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Supporting Nutrition: Understanding Tubefeeding (Cystic Fibrosis Foundation) \- PDF

## Related Issues

    * Allergic Bronchopulmonary Aspergillosis (Cystic Fibrosis Foundation)
    * CF and School (Cystic Fibrosis Foundation)
    * Cystic Fibrosis-Related Diabetes (CFRD): Daily Management (Cystic Fibrosis Foundation) \- PDF
    * Germs and Staying Healthy (Cystic Fibrosis Foundation)
    * Influenza (the Flu) (Cystic Fibrosis Foundation)
    * Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) (Cystic Fibrosis Foundation)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: cystic fibrosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Learning about Cystic Fibrosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Human Genome Research Institute)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Cystic Fibrosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ivacaftor (Trikafta) for cystic fibrosis.
    * Article: Elexacaftor-Tezacaftor-Ivacaftor for Cystic Fibrosis with a Single Phe508del Allele.
    * Article: Entering the era of highly effective CFTR modulator therapy.
    * Cystic Fibrosis -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Cystic Fibrosis Foundation
    * National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
    * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Teenagers

    * Dietary Tips for Teens With Cystic Fibrosis (Nemours Foundation)

## Patient Handouts

    * Cystic fibrosis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Cystic fibrosis - nutritional considerations (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * How to breathe when you are short of breath (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Neonatal cystic fibrosis screening (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Postural drainage (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Sweat electrolytes test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Cystic Fibrosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CysticFibrosis.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Cystic fibrosis
    * Cystic fibrosis - nutritional considerations
    * Fecal fat
    * How to breathe when you are short of breath
    * Neonatal cystic fibrosis screening
    * Oxygen safety
    * Postural drainage
    * Secretin stimulation test
    * Sweat electrolytes test
    * Traveling with breathing problems
    * Trypsin and chymotrypsin in stool
    * Trypsinogen test
    * Using oxygen at home
    * Using oxygen at home - what to ask your doctor

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

    * Lung Transplantation
    * Oxygen Therapy
    * Pulmonary Rehabilitation

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Cystic Fibrosis is the National
Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 27 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 13 October 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

