Link: https://medlineplus.gov/delirium.html    
                                Description: Delirium a condition of rapidly changing mental states such as behavior, emotions, in and out of consciousness, hallucinations, and memory problems.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Delirium

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/delirium.html

#  Delirium

## Summary

### What is delirium?

Delirium is a mental state in which you are confused, disoriented, and not
able to think or remember clearly. It usually starts suddenly. It is often
temporary and treatable.

There are three types of delirium:

    * Hypoactive, where you are not active and seem sleepy, tired, or depressed
    * Hyperactive, where you are restless or agitated
    * Mixed, where you change back and forth between being hypoactive and hyperactive

### What causes delirium?

There are many different problems that can cause delirium. Some of the more
common causes include

    * **Alcohol or drugs** , either from intoxication or withdrawal. This includes a serious type of alcohol withdrawal syndrome called delirium tremens. It usually happens to people who stop drinking after years of alcohol abuse.
    * **Dehydration and electrolyte imbalances**
    * **Dementia**
    * **Hospitalization** , especially in intensive care
    * **Infections** , such as urinary tract infections, pneumonia, and the flu
    * **Medicines.** This could be a side effect of a medicine, such as sedatives or opioids. Or it could be withdrawal after stopping a medicine.
    * **Metabolic disorders**
    * **Organ failure** , such as kidney or liver failure
    * **Poisoning**
    * **Serious illnesses**
    * **Severepain**
    * **Sleep deprivation**
    * **Surgeries** , including reactions to anesthesia

### Who is at risk for delirium?

Certain factors put you at risk for delirium, including

    * Being in a hospital or nursing home
    * Dementia
    * Having a serious illness or more than one illness
    * Having an infection
    * Older age
    * Surgery
    * Taking medicines that affect the mind or behavior
    * Taking high doses of pain medicines, such as opioids

### What are the symptoms of delirium?

The symptoms of delirium usually start suddenly, over a few hours or a few
days. They often come and go. The most common symptoms include

    * Changes in alertness (usually more alert in the morning, less at night)
    * Changing levels of consciousness
    * Confusion
    * Disorganized thinking, talking in a way that doesn't make sense
    * Disrupted sleep patterns, sleepiness
    * Emotional changes: anger, agitation, depression, irritability, overexcitement
    * Hallucinations and delusions
    * Incontinence
    * Memory problems, especially with short-term memory
    * Trouble concentrating

### How is delirium diagnosed?

To make a diagnosis, the health care provider

    * Will take a medical history
    * Will do physical and neurological exams
    * Will do mental status testing
    * May do lab tests
    * May do diagnostic imaging tests

Delirium and dementia have similar symptoms, so it can be hard to tell them
apart. They can also occur together. Delirium starts suddenly and can cause
hallucinations. The symptoms may get better or worse and can last for hours or
weeks. On the other hand, dementia develops slowly and does not cause
hallucinations. The symptoms are stable and may last for months or years.

### What are the treatments for delirium?

Treatment of delirium focuses on the causes and symptoms of delirium. The
first step is to identify the cause. Often, treating the cause will lead to a
full recovery. The recovery may take some time - weeks or sometimes even
months. In the meantime, there may be treatments to manage the symptoms, such
as

    * Controlling the environment, which includes making sure that the room is quiet and well-lit, having clocks or calendars in view, and having family members around
    * Medicines, including those that control aggression or agitation and pain relievers if there is pain
    * If needed, making sure that the person has a hearing aid, glasses, or other devices for communication

### Can delirium be prevented?

Treating the conditions that can cause delirium may reduce the risk of getting
it. Hospitals can help lower the risk of delirium by avoiding sedatives and
making sure that the room is kept quiet, calm, and well-lit. It can also help
to have family members around and to have the same staff members treat the
person.

## Learn More

    * Delirium (Merck & Co., Inc.) Also in Spanish
    * Delirium (PDQ) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Delirium: Issues for Older Adults (AGS Foundation for Health in Aging)
    * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
    * The Dilemma of Delirium in Older Patients ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging)
    * What to Ask: Delirium (AGS Foundation for Health in Aging)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Delirium ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Statistical analysis plan for the Maximizing the Efficacy of Sedation and...
    * Article: Neuromonitoring of delirium with quantitative pupillometry in sedated mechanically ventilated critically...
    * Article: Joining Forces against Delirium - From Organ-System Care to Whole-Human Care.
    * Delirium -- see more articles

## Patient Handouts

    * Delirium (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Delirium tremens (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Delirium](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Delirium.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 February 2020 Topic last reviewed: 13 May 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

