Link: https://medlineplus.gov/chronickidneydisease.html    
                                Description: If your kidneys are damaged and can&#39;t filter blood easily, then you may suffer from chronic kidney disease (CKD). Read about the treatments available    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Chronic Kidney Disease

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/chronickidneydisease.html

#  Chronic Kidney Disease

Also called: CKD

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Health Check Tools
    * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Women
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

You have two kidneys, each about the size of your fist. Their main job is to
filter your blood. They remove wastes and extra water, which become urine.
They also keep the body's chemicals balanced, help control blood pressure, and
make hormones.

Chronic kidney disease (CKD) means that your kidneys are damaged and can't
filter blood as they should. This damage can cause wastes to build up in your
body. It can also cause other problems that can harm your health. Diabetes and
high blood pressure are the most common causes of CKD.

The kidney damage occurs slowly over many years. Many people don't have any
symptoms until their kidney disease is very advanced. Blood and urine tests
are the only way to know if you have kidney disease.

Treatments cannot cure kidney disease, but they may slow kidney disease. They
include medicines to lower blood pressure, control blood sugar, and lower
cholesterol. CKD may still get worse over time. Sometimes it can lead to
kidney failure. If your kidneys fail, you will need dialysis or a kidney
transplantation.

You can take steps to keep your kidneys healthier longer:

    * Choose foods with less salt (sodium)
    * Control your blood pressure; your health care provider can tell you what your blood pressure should be
    * Keep your blood sugar in the target range, if you have diabetes
    * Limit the amount of alcohol you drink
    * Choose foods that are healthy for your heart: fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and low-fat dairy foods
    * Lose weight if you are overweight
    * Be physically active
    * Don't smoke

NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Start Here

    * About Chronic Kidney Disease (National Kidney Foundation)
    * Chronic Kidney Disease (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) (American Kidney Fund) Also in Spanish
    * Keep Your Kidneys Healthy: Catch Kidney Disease Early ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
    * What Is Chronic Kidney Disease? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Kidney Disease Education Program) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Creatinine Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Kidney Tests: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Screening for Chronic Kidney Disease (U.S. Preventive Services Task Force) \- PDF

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * At Risk for Kidney Disease? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Kidney Disease Education Program) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Dandelion ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Use of Herbal Supplements in Chronic Kidney Disease (National Kidney Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Living With

    * Coping Effectively: A Guide to Living Well with Kidney Failure (National Kidney Foundation) \- PDF
    * Dining Out with Confidence (National Kidney Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Eating Right for Chronic Kidney Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
    * High-Protein Diets: Are They Safe? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Nutrition for Advanced Chronic Kidney Disease in Adults ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Kidney and Urologic Diseases Information Clearinghouse)
    * Nutrition in Children with Chronic Kidney Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Kidney and Urologic Diseases Information Clearinghouse)
    * Potassium and Your CKD Diet (National Kidney Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Renal Diet for Vegetarians: Which Protein Sources Are Best? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Slowing Kidney Disease (Life Options Rehabilitation Program)
    * Vitamins and Minerals in Kidney Disease (National Kidney Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Working with Kidney Disease: Rehabilitation and Employment (National Kidney Foundation)

## Related Issues

    * Anemia in Chronic Kidney Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
    * Flu Season and Your Kidneys (National Kidney Foundation)
    * Health Care Team (National Kidney Foundation)
    * Keeping Your Heart Healthy: What You Should Know about Lipids When You Have Chronic Kidney Disease (Stages 1-4) (National Kidney Foundation) \- PDF
    * Managing Chronic Kidney Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
    * Mineral & Bone Disorder in Chronic Kidney Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
    * Planning for Emergencies: A Guide for People with Chronic Kidney Disease (National Kidney Foundation) \- PDF
    * Sexuality and Chronic Kidney Disease (National Kidney Foundation)
    * Staying Fit with Kidney Disease (National Kidney Foundation)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: fibronectin glomerulopathy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Health Check Tools

    * Kidneys and Your Health: Kidney Health Assessment Quiz (National Kidney Foundation)

## Videos and Tutorials

    * Kidney School (Life Options Rehabilitation Program)

## Statistics and Research

    * FastStats: Kidney Disease (National Center for Health Statistics)
    * Kidney Disease Statistics for the United States ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Renal Insufficiency, Chronic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Exploring Patients' Experiences After Chronic Kidney Disease Diagnosis: A Qualitative Study.
    * Article: The influence of blood pressure patterns on renal outcomes in patients...
    * Article: The global burden of chronic kidney disease.
    * Chronic Kidney Disease -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Kidneys and How They Work ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
    * Kidneys and Urinary Tract (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Find an Expert

    * Find a Urologist (Urology Care Foundation)
    * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
    * National Kidney Disease Education Program ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
    * National Kidney Foundation

## Children

    * Children with Chronic Kidney Disease: Tips for Parents (National Kidney Foundation)
    * Growth Failure in Children with Chronic Kidney Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
    * High Blood Pressure and Chronic Kidney Disease in Children: A Guide for Parents (National Kidney Foundation)
    * Nutrition in Children with Chronic Kidney Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Kidney and Urologic Diseases Information Clearinghouse)
    * When Your Child Has a Chronic Kidney Disease (Nemours Foundation)

## Teenagers

    * Kidney Disease (Nemours Foundation)

## Women

    * Pregnancy and Kidney Disease (National Kidney Foundation)

## Patient Handouts

    * ACE inhibitors (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Chronic kidney disease (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * High Blood Pressure (American Kidney Fund)

## Topic Image

![Chronic Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChronicKidneyDisease.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * ACE inhibitors
    * Chronic kidney disease
    * Diet - chronic kidney disease
    * Renal perfusion scintiscan
    * Renovascular hypertension

## Related Health Topics

    * Dialysis
    * Kidney Diseases
    * Kidney Failure
    * Kidney Tests

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Chronic Kidney Disease is the
National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Chronic Kidney
Disease_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 28 June 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

