Link: https://medlineplus.gov/respiratoryfailure.html    
                                Description: Respiratory failure happens when not enough oxygen passes from your lungs to your blood. Lung diseases can cause respiratory failure. Read more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Respiratory Failure

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/respiratoryfailure.html

#  Respiratory Failure

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is respiratory failure?

Respiratory failure is a condition in which your blood doesn't have enough
oxygen or has too much carbon dioxide. Sometimes you can have both problems.

When you breathe, your lungs take in oxygen. The oxygen passes into your
blood, which carries it to your organs. Your organs, such as your heart and
brain, need this oxygen-rich blood to work well.

Another part of breathing is removing the carbon dioxide from the blood and
breathing it out. Having too much carbon dioxide in your blood can harm your
organs.

### What causes respiratory failure?

Conditions that affect your breathing can cause respiratory failure. These
conditions may affect the muscles, nerves, bones, or tissues that support
breathing. Or they may affect the lungs directly. These conditions include

    * Lung diseases such as COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), cystic fibrosis, pneumonia, and pulmonary embolism
    * Conditions that affect the nerves and muscles that control breathing, such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), muscular dystrophy, spinal cord injuries, and stroke
    * Problems with the spine, such as scoliosis (a curve in the spine). They can affect the bones and muscles used for breathing.
    * Damage to the tissues and ribs around the lungs. An injury to the chest can cause this damage.
    * Drug or alcohol overdose
    * Inhalation injuries, such as from inhaling smoke (from fires) or harmful fumes

### What are the symptoms of respiratory failure?

The symptoms of respiratory failure depend on the cause and the levels of
oxygen and carbon dioxide in your blood.

A low oxygen level in the blood can cause shortness of breath and air hunger
(the feeling that you can't breathe in enough air). Your skin, lips, and
fingernails may also have a bluish color. A high carbon dioxide level can
cause rapid breathing and confusion.

Some people who have respiratory failure may become very sleepy or lose
consciousness. They also may have arrhythmia (irregular heartbeat). You may
have these symptoms if your brain and heart are not getting enough oxygen.

### How is respiratory failure diagnosed?

Your health care provider will diagnose respiratory failure based on

    * Your medical history
    * A physical exam, which often includes
      * Listening to your lungs to check for abnormal sounds
      * Listening to your heart to check for arrhythmia
      * Looking for a bluish color on your skin, lips, and fingernails
    * Diagnostic tests, such as
      * Pulse oximetry, a small sensor that uses a light to measure how much oxygen is in your blood. The sensor goes on the end of your finger or on your ear.
      * Arterial blood gas test, a test that measures the oxygen and carbon dioxide levels in your blood. The blood sample is taken from an artery, usually in your wrist.

Once you are diagnosed with respiratory failure, your provider will look for
what is causing it. Tests for this often include a chest x-ray. If your
provider thinks you may have arrhythmia because of the respiratory failure,
you may have an EKG (electrocardiogram). This is simple, painless test that
detects and records your heart's electrical activity.

### What are the treatments for respiratory failure?

Treatment for respiratory failure depends on

    * Whether it is acute (short-term) or chronic (ongoing)
    * How severe it is
    * What is causing it

Acute respiratory failure can be a medical emergency. You may need treatment
in intensive care unit at a hospital. Chronic respiratory failure can often be
treated at home. But if your chronic respiratory failure is severe, you might
need treatment in a long-term care center.

One of the main goals of treatment is to get oxygen to your lungs and other
organs and remove carbon dioxide from your body. Another goal is to treat the
cause of the condition. Treatments may include

    * **Oxygen therapy,** through a nasal cannula (two small plastic tubes that go in your nostrils) or through a mask that fits over your nose and mouth
    * **Tracheostomy,** a surgically-made hole that goes through the front of your neck and into your windpipe. A breathing tube, also called a tracheostomy, or trach tube, is placed in the hole to help you breathe.
    * **Ventilator,** a breathing machine that blows air into your lungs. It also carries carbon dioxide out of your lungs.
    * **Other breathing treatments,** such as noninvasive positive pressure ventilation (NPPV), which uses mild air pressure to keep your airways open while you sleep. Another treatment is a special bed that rocks back and forth, to help you breathe in and out.
    * **Fluids,** often through an intravenous (IV), to improve blood flow throughout your body. They also provide nutrition.
    * **Medicines** for discomfort
    * **Treatments for the cause of the respiratory failure.** These treatments may include medicines and procedures.

If you have respiratory failure, see your health care provider for ongoing
medical care. Your provider may suggest pulmonary rehabilitation.

If your respiratory failure is chronic, make sure that you know when and where
to get help for your symptoms. You need emergency care if you have severe
symptoms, such as trouble catching your breath or talking. You should call
your provider if you notice that your symptoms are worsening or if you have
new signs and symptoms.

Living with respiratory failure may cause fear, anxiety, depression, and
stress. Talk therapy, medicines, and support groups can help you feel better.

NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Start Here

    * Respiratory Failure ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Blood Oxygen Level ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Lung Function Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Mechanical Ventilation (American Thoracic Society) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Oxygen Therapy: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * What Is a Ventilator? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Living With

    * Pulmonary Rehabilitation: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) (American Lung Association)
    * ARDS (Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)
    * What Is Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome? (American Thoracic Society) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: hereditary myopathy with early respiratory failure ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Respiratory Distress Syndrome, Adult ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Respiratory Insufficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Respiratory physiotherapy in patients with COVID-19 infection in acute setting: a...
    * Article: Statistical analysis plan for the Maximizing the Efficacy of Sedation and...
    * Article: Hemidiaphragmatic paralysis following ultrasound-guided anterior vs. posterior suprascapular nerve block: a...
    * Respiratory Failure -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * How the Lungs Work ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Find an Expert

    * American Lung Association
    * National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Patient Handouts

    * Acute respiratory distress syndrome (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Respiratory acidosis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Respiratory Failure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RespiratoryFailure.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Acute respiratory distress syndrome
    * Respiratory acidosis

## Related Health Topics

    * Lung Diseases

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Respiratory Failure is the
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 27 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 23 December 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

