Link: https://medlineplus.gov/gastrointestinalbleeding.html    
                                Description: Gastrointestinal bleeding can be a a signal of a serious disease. Find out about GI tract symptoms, tests, and related conditions.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Gastrointestinal Bleeding

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/gastrointestinalbleeding.html

#  Gastrointestinal Bleeding

Also called: GI bleeding

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Diagnosis and Tests

### Learn More

  * Related Issues
  * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

  * No links available

### Research

  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Reference Desk
  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Children
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Your digestive or gastrointestinal (GI) tract includes the esophagus, stomach,
small intestine, large intestine or colon, rectum, and anus. Bleeding can come
from any of these areas. The amount of bleeding can be so small that only a
lab test can find it.

Signs of bleeding in the digestive tract depend where it is and how much
bleeding there is.

Signs of bleeding in the upper digestive tract include

  * Bright red blood in vomit
  * Vomit that looks like coffee grounds
  * Black or tarry stool
  * Dark blood mixed with stool

Signs of bleeding in the lower digestive tract include

  * Black or tarry stool
  * Dark blood mixed with stool
  * Stool mixed or coated with bright red blood

GI bleeding is not a disease, but a symptom of a disease. There are many
possible causes of GI bleeding, including hemorrhoids, peptic ulcers, tears or
inflammation in the esophagus, diverticulosis and diverticulitis, ulcerative
colitis and Crohn's disease, colonic polyps, or cancer in the colon, stomach
or esophagus.

The test used most often to look for the cause of GI bleeding is called
endoscopy. It uses a flexible instrument inserted through the mouth or rectum
to view the inside of the GI tract. A type of endoscopy called colonoscopy
looks at the large intestine.

NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Start Here

  * Gastrointestinal (GI) Bleeding ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
  * GI bleeding - slideshow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Abdominal Pain (Stomach Pain), Long-Term (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
  * Abdominal Pain (Stomach Pain), Short-Term (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
  * Capsule Endoscopy (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
  * Colonoscopy: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Fecal Occult Blood Test (FOBT) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Lower GI Series (Barium Enema) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
  * Small Bowel Bleeding (American College of Gastroenterology) Also in Spanish
  * Upper GI Endoscopy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

  * Stool Color: When to Worry (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Vomiting Blood (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

  * Esophageal Varices (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
  * Proctitis (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Proctitis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
  * Rectal Bleeding (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Understanding Minor Rectal Bleeding (American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Gastrointestinal Hemorrhage ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Introducing GIST and Dieulafoy - Think of Them in GI Bleeding...
  * Article: Efficacy and safety of gastrointestinal bleeding prophylaxis in critically ill patients:...
  * Article: Massive hemorrhage from an aortoesophageal fistula caused by esophageal stent implantation:...
  * Gastrointestinal Bleeding -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

  * Your Digestive System and How It Works ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish

## Find an Expert

  * American College of Gastroenterology
  * ASGE: Find a Doctor (American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy)
  * Find a Gastroenterologist (American College of Gastroenterology)
  * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

  * Stool Tests (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
  * Upper GI Bleeding in Children (North American Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition) \- PDF

## Patient Handouts

  * Bleeding esophageal varices (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Bloody or tarry stools (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Gastrointestinal bleeding (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Lower GI Series ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
  * Mallory-Weiss tear (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Vomiting blood (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Gastrointestinal
Bleeding](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GastrointestinalBleeding.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Bleeding esophageal varices
  * Bloody or tarry stools
  * Enteroscopy
  * Ferritin blood test
  * Gastrointestinal bleeding
  * Gastrointestinal perforation
  * GI bleeding - slideshow
  * Mallory-Weiss tear
  * Mesenteric angiography
  * RBC nuclear scan

  * Stool guaiac test
  * Vomiting blood

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

  * Hemorrhoids
  * Peptic Ulcer

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Gastrointestinal Bleeding is the
National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Gastrointestinal
Bleeding_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 7 May 2019 Topic last reviewed: 4 May 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

