Link: https://medlineplus.gov/charcotmarietoothdisease.html    
                                Description: Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, CMT affects your peripheral nerves. Interrupting messages to your brain about things around you, like touch.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/charcotmarietoothdisease.html

#  Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease

Also called: Hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy, Peroneal muscular
atrophy

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Symptoms
    * Diagnosis and Tests

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT) is a group of genetic nerve disorders. It is
named after the three doctors who first identified it. In the United States,
CMT affects about 1 in 2,500 people.

CMT affects your peripheral nerves. Peripheral nerves carry movement and
sensation signals between the brain and spinal cord and the rest of the body.
Symptoms usually start around the teen years. Foot problems such as high
arches or hammertoes can be early symptoms. As CMT progresses, your lower legs
may weaken. Later, your hands may also become weak.

Doctors diagnose CMT by doing a neurologic exam, nerve tests, genetic tests,
or a nerve biopsy. There is no cure. The disease can be so mild you don't
realize you have it or severe enough to make you weak. Physical therapy,
occupational therapy, braces and other devices and sometimes surgery can help.

NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Start Here

    * Charcot-Marie-Tooth and Related Diseases (Muscular Dystrophy Association) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) \- Short Summary
    * Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) Also in Spanish

## Symptoms

    * Signs and Symptoms (Muscular Dystrophy Association)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Electromyography (EMG) and Nerve Conduction Studies ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Living With

    * Medical Management (Muscular Dystrophy Association)

## Related Issues

    * Peripheral Neuropathy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Types of CMT (Muscular Dystrophy Association)

## Genetics

    * Causes of Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease (CMT) (Muscular Dystrophy Association)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Learning about Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Human Genome Research Institute)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Recurrent episodes of reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy in three Chinese families with...
    * Article: Targeted next-generation sequencing panels in the diagnosis of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease.
    * Article: Schwann Cell and the Pathogenesis of Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease.
    * Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Charcot-Marie-
Tooth-Disease.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease

## Related Health Topics

    * Degenerative Nerve Diseases
    * Muscle Disorders

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease is
the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 20 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 4 August 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

