Link: https://medlineplus.gov/cholesterolmedicines.html    
                                Description: If diet and exercise don&#39;t reduce your cholesterol levels enough, you may need to take medicine. Learn about the different cholesterol medicines.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Cholesterol Medicines

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/cholesterolmedicines.html

#  Cholesterol Medicines

## Summary

### What is cholesterol?

Your body needs some cholesterol to work properly. But if you have too much in
your blood, it can stick to the walls of your arteries and narrow or even
block them. This puts you at risk for coronary artery disease and other heart
diseases.

Cholesterol travels through the blood on proteins called lipoproteins. One
type, LDL, is sometimes called the "bad" cholesterol. A high LDL level leads
to a buildup of cholesterol in your arteries. Another type, HDL, is sometimes
called the "good" cholesterol. It carries cholesterol from other parts of your
body back to your liver. Then your liver removes the cholesterol from your
body.

### What are the treatments for high cholesterol?

If you have high cholesterol, lifestyle changes can help you to lower your
cholesterol level. But sometimes the lifestyle changes are not enough, and you
need to take cholesterol medicines. You should still continue with the
lifestyle changes even though you are taking medicines.

### Who needs cholesterol medicines?

Your health care provider may prescribe medicine if:

    * You have already had a heart attack or stroke, or you have peripheral arterial disease
    * Your LDL (bad) cholesterol level is 190 mg/dL or higher
    * You are 40-75 years old, you have diabetes, and your LDL cholesterol level is 70 mg/dL or higher
    * You are 40-75 years old, you have a high risk of developing heart disease or stroke, and your LDL cholesterol level is 70 mg/dL or higher

### What are the different types of medicines for cholesterol?

There are several types of cholesterol-lowering drugs available, including

    * Statins, which block the liver from making cholesterol
    * Bile acid sequestrants, which decrease the amount of fat absorbed from food
    * Cholesterol absorption inhibitors, which decrease the amount of cholesterol absorbed from food and lower triglycerides.
    * Nicotinic acid (niacin), which lowers LDL (bad) cholesterol and triglycerides and raises HDL (good) cholesterol. Even though you can buy niacin without a prescription, you should talk to your health care provider before taking it to lower your cholesterol. High doses of niacin can cause serious side effects.
    * PCSK9 inhibitors, which block a protein called PCSK9. This helps your liver remove and clear LDL cholesterol from your blood.
    * Fibrates, which lower triglycerides. They may also raise HDL (good) cholesterol. If you take them with statins, they may increase the risk of muscle problems.
    * Combination medicines, which include more than one type of cholesterol-lowering medicine

There are also a few other cholesterol medicines (lomitapide and mipomersen)
that are only for people who have familial hypercholesterolemia (FH). FH is an
inherited disorder that causes high LDL cholesterol.

### How does my health care provider decide which cholesterol medicine I
should take?

When deciding which medicine you should take and which dose you need, your
health care provider will consider

    * Your cholesterol levels
    * Your risk for heart disease and stroke
    * Your age
    * Any other health problems you have
    * Possible side effects of the medicines. Higher doses are more likely to cause side effects, especially over time.

Medicines can help control your cholesterol, but they don't cure it. You need
to keep taking your medicines and get regular cholesterol checks to make sure
that you cholesterol levels are in a healthy range.

## Start Here

    * Cholesterol Medications (American Heart Association)
    * Cholesterol Medications: Consider the Options (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Pharmacogenetic Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Learn More

    * Bile acid sequestrants for cholesterol (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Cholesterol - drug treatment (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Fibrates (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * How to take statins (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Niacin for cholesterol (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Statins: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Ezetimibe ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA Reductase Inhibitors ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hypolipidemic Agents ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Nicotinic Acids ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Association Between Genetically Proxied Inhibition of HMG-CoA Reductase and Epithelial Ovarian...
    * Article: PCSK9 inhibitors for treating hypercholesterolemia.
    * Article: Lipoprotein(a) Reduction in Persons with Cardiovascular Disease.
    * Cholesterol Medicines -- see more articles

## Topic Image

![Cholesterol
Medicines](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CholesterolMedicines.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## Related Health Topics

    * Cholesterol
    * Cholesterol Levels: What You Need to Know
    * Heart Diseases
    * How to Lower Cholesterol
    * Statins
    * Triglycerides

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Cholesterol Medicines is the
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 10 February 2020 Topic last reviewed: 16 January 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

