Link: https://medlineplus.gov/gallstones.html    
                                Description: Gallstones (Cholelithiasis) form when substances in bile harden. Stones that block bile ducts can cause gallbladder attacks. Find out who is at risk.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Gallstones

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/gallstones.html

#  Gallstones

Also called: Cholelithiasis

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Women
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Your gallbladder is a pear-shaped organ under your liver. It stores bile, a
fluid made by your liver to digest fat. As your stomach and intestines digest
food, your gallbladder releases bile through a tube called the common bile
duct. The duct connects your gallbladder and liver to your small intestine.

Your gallbladder is most likely to give you trouble if something blocks the
flow of bile through the bile ducts. That is usually a gallstone. Gallstones
form when substances in bile harden. Gallstone attacks usually happen after
you eat. Signs of a gallstone attack may include nausea, vomiting, or pain in
the abdomen, back, or just under the right arm.

Gallstones are most common among older adults, women, overweight people,
Native Americans and Mexican Americans.

Gallstones are often found during imaging tests for other health conditions.
If you do not have symptoms, you usually do not need treatment. The most
common treatment is removal of the gallbladder. Fortunately, you can live
without a gallbladder. Bile has other ways to reach your small intestine.

NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Start Here

    * Gallstones (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Gallstones ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Abdominal exploration - slideshow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Abdominal Ultrasound (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * HIDA Scan (Cholescintigraphy) (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Understanding EUS (Endoscopic Ultrasonography) (American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Cholecystectomy: Surgical Removal of the Gallbladder (American College of Surgeons) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Endoscopic retrograde cholangio pancreatography (ERCP) - slideshow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * ERCP (Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangiopancreatography) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
    * Gallbladder Cleanse: A "Natural" Remedy for Gallstones? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Cholecystitis (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Biliary Tract Disorders, Gallbladder Disorders, and Gallstone Pancreatitis (American College of Gastroenterology) Also in Spanish
    * Chronic Diarrhea: A Concern After Gallbladder Removal? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Dieting and Gallstones ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
    * Galled by the Gallbladder?: Your Tiny, Hard-Working Digestive Organ ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Choledocholithiasis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Cholelithiasis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Risk factors for gallstone disease in Shanghai: An observational study.
    * Article: Comparison of the ICC location in the gallbladder wall in patients...
    * Article: Outcomes of Endoscopic Sphincteroplasty Using Large Balloon Dilatation for Difficult Common...
    * Gallstones -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Women

    * Gallstones in Women (American College of Gastroenterology)

## Patient Handouts

    * Choledocholithiasis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * ERCP (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Gallbladder removal - laparoscopic (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Gallbladder removal - laparoscopic - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Gallbladder removal - open (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Gallstones (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Gallstones ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Topic Image

![Gallstones](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Gallstones.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Abdominal exploration
    * Abdominal exploration - slideshow
    * Abdominal MRI
    * Abdominal ultrasound
    * Choledocholithiasis
    * Endoscopic retrograde cholangio pancreatography (ERCP) - slideshow
    * ERCP
    * Fecal fat
    * Gallbladder removal - laparoscopic
    * Gallbladder removal - laparoscopic - discharge
    * Gallbladder removal - open
    * Gallbladder removal - open - discharge
    * Gallbladder removal - slideshow
    * Gallstones
    * Gallstones - discharge

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

    * Gallbladder Diseases

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Gallstones is the National
Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Gallstones_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 7 May 2019 Topic last reviewed: 1 November 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

