Link: https://medlineplus.gov/endocarditis.html    
                                Description: Endocarditis, or infective endocarditis (IE), is inflammation of the inner lining of the heart. Learn the causes, who&#39;s at risk, and how it&#39;s treated.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Endocarditis

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/endocarditis.html

#  Endocarditis

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors

### Learn More

    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Endocarditis, also called infective endocarditis (IE), is an inflammation of
the inner lining of the heart. The most common type, bacterial endocarditis,
occurs when germs enter your heart. These germs come through your bloodstream
from another part of your body, often your mouth. Bacterial endocarditis can
damage your heart valves. If untreated, it can be life-threatening. It is rare
in healthy hearts.

Risk factors include having

    * An abnormal or damaged heart valve 
    * An artificial heart valve 
    * Congenital heart defects

The signs and symptoms of IE can vary from person to person. They also can
vary over time in the same person. Symptoms you might notice include fever,
shortness of breath, fluid buildup in your arms or legs, tiny red spots on
your skin, and weight loss. Your doctor will diagnose IE based on your risk
factors, medical history, signs and symptoms, and lab and heart tests.

Early treatment can help you avoid complications. Treatment usually involves
high-dose antibiotics. If your heart valve is damaged, you may need surgery.

If you're at risk for IE, brush and floss your teeth regularly, and have
regular dental checkups. Germs from a gum infection can enter your
bloodstream. If you are at high risk, your doctor might prescribe antibiotics
before dental work and certain types of surgery.

NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Start Here

    * Bacterial Endocarditis (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Endocarditis (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Heart Inflammation ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)
    * Infective Endocarditis (Merck & Co., Inc.)
    * What Is Infective Endocarditis? (American Heart Association) \- PDF

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * What Is Transesophageal Echocardiography? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Prevention of Infective (Bacterial) Endocarditis: Wallet Card (American Heart Association) \- PDF

## Specifics

    * Infective Endocarditis (American Heart Association)
    * Infective Endocarditis (Texas Heart Institute) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Endocarditis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Treating Addiction as a Terminal Disease.
    * Article: Infective endocarditis and orthodontic implications in children: A review of the...
    * Article: Lethal infective endocarditis due to Streptococcus agalactiae in a man with...
    * Endocarditis -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Heart and Stroke Encyclopedia (American Heart Association)
    * How the Heart Works ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Find an Expert

    * American Heart Association
    * National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Patient Handouts

    * Culture-negative endocarditis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Endocarditis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Endocarditis - children (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Endocarditis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Endocarditis.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Antistreptolysin O titer
    * Culture-negative endocarditis
    * Endocarditis
    * Endocarditis - children
    * Splinter hemorrhages

## Related Health Topics

    * Heart Diseases

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Endocarditis is the National
Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 8 November 2019 Topic last reviewed: 10 July 2019

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

