Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lowbloodpressure.html    
                                Description: Some people have low blood pressure (hypotension). It is only a problem if it causes dizziness, fainting, or shock. Learn about what can cause it.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Low Blood Pressure

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lowbloodpressure.html

#  Low Blood Pressure

Also called: Hypotension, LBP

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Diagnosis and Tests

### Learn More

  * Related Issues
  * Specifics
  * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

  * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Older Adults
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

You've probably heard that high blood pressure is a problem. Sometimes blood
pressure that is too low can also cause problems.

Blood pressure is the force of your blood pushing against the walls of your
arteries. Each time your heart beats, it pumps out blood into the arteries.
Your blood pressure is highest when your heart beats, pumping the blood. This
is called systolic pressure. When your heart is at rest, between beats, your
blood pressure falls. This is the diastolic pressure. Your blood pressure
reading uses these two numbers. Usually they're written one above or before
the other, such as 120/80. If your blood pressure reading is 90/60 or lower,
you have low blood pressure.

Some people have low blood pressure all the time. They have no symptoms and
their low readings are normal for them. In other people, blood pressure drops
below normal because of a medical condition or certain medicines. Some people
may have symptoms of low blood pressure when standing up too quickly. Low
blood pressure is a problem only if it causes dizziness, fainting or in
extreme cases, shock.

NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Start Here

  * Low Blood Pressure (American Heart Association)
  * Low Blood Pressure (Hypotension) (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * What Is Hypotension? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Arterial Catheterization (American Thoracic Society) \- PDF
  * Tilt Table Test (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

  * Conditions Related to Parkinson's (Parkinson's Foundation)
  * Syncope (Fainting) (American Heart Association)

## Specifics

  * Multiple System Atrophy (MSA) (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Orthostatic Hypotension ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
  * Orthostatic Hypotension (Postural Hypotension) (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Genetics

  * Genetics Home Reference: orthostatic hypotension ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Videos and Tutorials

  * Blood pressure ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hypotension ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hypotension, Orthostatic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: A randomised double-blind dose-response study of weight-adjusted infusions of norepinephrine for...
  * Article: A randomized double-blind study comparing prophylactic norepinephrine and ephedrine infusion for...
  * Article: Perioperative blood pressure in the elderly.
  * Low Blood Pressure -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

  * American Heart Association
  * National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
  * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Older Adults

  * Fainting (Syncope) (AGS Foundation for Health in Aging)
  * Postprandial Hypotension (Merck & Co., Inc.) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

  * Low blood pressure (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Low Blood Pressure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LowBloodPressure.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Blood pressure
  * Hepatic ischemia
  * Low blood pressure

## Related Health Topics

  * Autonomic Nervous System Disorders
  * High Blood Pressure

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Low Blood Pressure is the
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 30 August 2019 Topic last reviewed: 28 January 2019

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

