Link: https://medlineplus.gov/rhincompatibility.html    
                                Description: Rh incompatibility happens during pregnancy if mom&#39;s blood is Rh-negative and the baby&#39;s is Rh-positive. Learn about screening and treatment.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Rh Incompatibility

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/rhincompatibility.html

#  Rh Incompatibility

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests

### Learn More

    * No links available

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

There are four major blood types: A, B, O, and AB. The types are based on
substances on the surface of the blood cells. Another blood type is called Rh.
Rh factor is a protein on red blood cells. Most people are Rh-positive; they
have Rh factor. Rh-negative people don't have it. Rh factor is inherited
through genes.

When you're pregnant, blood from your baby can cross into your bloodstream,
especially during delivery. If you're Rh-negative and your baby is Rh-
positive, your body will react to the baby's blood as a foreign substance. It
will create antibodies (proteins) against the baby's blood. These antibodies
usually don't cause problems during a first pregnancy.

But Rh incompatibility may cause problems in later pregnancies, if the baby is
Rh-positive. This is because the antibodies stay in your body once they have
formed. The antibodies can cross the placenta and attack the baby's red blood
cells. The baby could get Rh disease, a serious condition that can cause a
serious type of anemia.

Blood tests can tell whether you have Rh factor and whether your body has made
antibodies. Injections of a medicine called Rh immune globulin can keep your
body from making Rh antibodies. It helps prevent the problems of Rh
incompatibility. If treatment is needed for the baby, it can include
supplements to help the body to make red blood cells and blood transfusions.

NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Start Here

    * Rh Disease (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Rh Factor: How It Can Affect Your Pregnancy (American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists)
    * Rh Incompatibility ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Red Blood Cell Antibody Identification (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
    * Rh Factor Blood Test (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Erythroblastosis, Fetal ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: A clinical prediction rule for acute bilirubin encephalopathy in neonates with...
    * Article: Do chorionic villus samplings (CVS) or amniocenteses (AC) induce RhD immunisation?...
    * Article: The continuing burden of Rh disease 50 years afterÂ the introduction of...
    * Rh Incompatibility -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
    * National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * Hydrops Fetalis/Erythroblastosis Fetalis (Children's Hospital and Health System, Wisconsin)
    * Rh Incompatibility (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Fetal-maternal erythrocyte distribution (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Hemolytic disease of the newborn (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Rh incompatibility (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Incompatibilidad Rh](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RhIncompatibility.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Fetal-maternal erythrocyte distribution
    * Hemolytic disease of the newborn
    * Hydrops fetalis
    * Rh incompatibility

## Related Health Topics

    * Blood Disorders

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Rh Incompatibility is the
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 December 2019 Topic last reviewed: 19 June 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

