Link: https://medlineplus.gov/chronicpain.html    
                                Description: Experiencing ongoing pain is called chronic pain. While chronic pain cannot be cured, there are treatments that can help manage and reduce.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Chronic Pain

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/chronicpain.html

#  Chronic Pain

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Older Adults
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Pain is a signal in your nervous system that something may be wrong. It is an
unpleasant feeling, such as a prick, tingle, sting, burn, or ache. Pain may be
sharp or dull. You may feel pain in one area of your body, or all over. There
are two types: acute pain and chronic pain. Acute pain lets you know that you
may be injured or a have problem you need to take care of. Chronic pain is
different. The pain may last for weeks, months, or even years. The original
cause may have been an injury or infection. There may be an ongoing cause of
pain, such as arthritis or cancer. In some cases there is no clear cause.
Environmental and psychological factors can make chronic pain worse.

Many older adults have chronic pain. Women also report having more chronic
pain than men, and they are at a greater risk for many pain conditions. Some
people have two or more chronic pain conditions.

Chronic pain is not always curable, but treatments can help. There are drug
treatments, including pain relievers. There are also non-drug treatments, such
as acupuncture, physical therapy, and sometimes surgery.

NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Start Here

    * Chronic Pain (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Chronic Pain ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) \- Short Summary
    * Pain: Hope through Research ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * 6 Things You Should Know: The Science of Chronic Pain and Complementary Health Practices ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Antidepressants: Another Weapon Against Chronic Pain (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Biofeedback (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Chronic Pain and Complementary Health Approaches ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Managing Pain: Moving Beyond Opioids ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
    * Pain Relievers: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Living With

    * Chronic Pain (American Occupational Therapy Association)
    * Coping with Chronic Pain (American Psychological Association) Also in Spanish
    * Quality of Life Scale: A Measure of Function for People with Pain (American Chronic Pain Association) \- PDF

## Related Issues

    * Chronic Pain and PTSD: A Guide for Patients (National Center for PTSD)
    * Chronic Pain Can Interfere with Sexuality (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Employees with Chronic Pain (Office of Disability Employment Policy)
    * Staying Fit with Chronic Pain (American Heart Association)

## Specifics

    * Central Pain Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Myofascial Pain Syndrome (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Statistics and Research

    * Complementary Health Approaches for Chronic Pain: What the Science Says ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Scientists Take a Close-Up of Key Pain-Sensing Molecule ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Study Suggests Brain Is Hard-Wired for Chronic Pain ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Chronic Pain ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Opioid Prescribing in the Midst of Crisis - Myths and Realities.
    * Article: Assessment of spinal cord stimulation and radiofrequency: Chronic pain and psychological...
    * Article: Non-specific chronic low back pain and physical activity: A comparison of...
    * Chronic Pain -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * American Chronic Pain Association
    * Find a Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation Physician (American Academy of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation)
    * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
    * NIH Pain Consortium ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Older Adults

    * Pain Management (American Geriatrics Society)

## Patient Handouts

    * Managing your chronic pain (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Pain and your emotions (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Chronic Pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChronicPain2.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Managing your chronic pain
    * Pain and your emotions

## Related Health Topics

    * Non-Drug Pain Management
    * Pain
    * Pain Relievers

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Chronic Pain is the National
Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 18 February 2020 Topic last reviewed: 17 August 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

