Link: https://medlineplus.gov/gout.html    
                                Description: Gout or gouty arthritis causes swollen, red, stiff joints. Gout is common but can be hard to diagnose. Get the facts on gout symptoms and treatment.      
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Gout

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/gout.html

#  Gout

Also called: Gouty arthritis

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Gout is a common, painful form of arthritis. It causes swollen, red, hot and
stiff joints.

Gout happens when uric acid builds up in your body. Uric acid comes from the
breakdown of substances called purines. Purines are in your body's tissues and
in foods, such as liver, dried beans and peas, and anchovies. Normally, uric
acid dissolves in the blood. It passes through the kidneys and out of the body
in urine. But sometimes uric acid can build up and form needle-like crystals.
When they form in your joints, it is very painful. The crystals can also cause
kidney stones.

Often, gout first attacks your big toe. It can also attack ankles, heels,
knees, wrists, fingers, and elbows. At first, gout attacks usually get better
in days. Eventually, attacks last longer and happen more often.

You are more likely to get gout if you

    * Are a man
    * Have family member with gout
    * Are overweight
    * Drink alcohol
    * Eat too many foods rich in purines

Gout can be hard to diagnose. Your doctor may take a sample of fluid from an
inflamed joint to look for crystals. You can treat gout with medicines.

Pseudogout has similar symptoms and is sometimes confused with gout. However,
it is caused by calcium phosphate, not uric acid.

NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases

## Start Here

    * Gout ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases) Also in Spanish
    * Gout (American College of Rheumatology) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Uric Acid Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Gripped by Gout: Avoiding the Ache and Agony ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Joint Injection/Aspiration (American College of Rheumatology) Also in Spanish
    * NSAIDs (Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs) (American College of Rheumatology) Also in Spanish

## Living With

    * Gout Diet (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Calcium Pyrophosphate Deposition (CPPD) (American College of Rheumatology)
    * Diuretics and Gout: What's the Connection? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Glucosamine: Can It Worsen Gout Symptoms? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Gout (American Society for Surgery of the Hand)
    * Pseudogout (American Society for Surgery of the Hand)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: gout ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: phosphoribosylpyrophosphate synthetase superactivity ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: REN-related kidney disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: uromodulin-associated kidney disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Images

    * Gout (Logical Images)

## Statistics and Research

    * Arthritis by the Numbers: Book of Trusted Facts and Figures (Arthritis Foundation) \- PDF
    * Gout (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Chondrocalcinosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Gout ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Thoracic gout tophus with abdominal wall protrusion: A case report.
    * Article: Global, regional, and national burden of chronic kidney disease, 1990-2017: a...
    * Article: The prevalence of gout and hyperuricemia in middle-aged and elderly people...
    * Gout -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Find a Rheumatologist (American College of Rheumatology)
    * National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Calcium pyrophosphate arthritis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Gout (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Uric acid - blood (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Uric acid - urine (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Gout](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Gout.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Calcium pyrophosphate arthritis
    * Gout
    * Synovial biopsy
    * Synovial fluid analysis
    * Uric acid - blood
    * Uric acid - urine

## Related Health Topics

    * Arthritis

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Gout is the National Institute of
Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 17 March 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

