Link: https://medlineplus.gov/croup.html    
                                Description: Croup symptoms include difficulty breathing, a barking cough, and a hoarse voice. Children are at the highest risk. Learn more about croup.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Croup

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/croup.html

#  Croup

Also called: Spasmodic croup, Viral croup

## Summary

Croup is an inflammation of the vocal cords (larynx) and windpipe (trachea).
It causes difficulty breathing, a barking cough, and a hoarse voice. The cause
is usually a virus, often parainfluenza virus. Other causes include allergies
and reflux.

Croup often starts out like a cold. But then the vocal cords and windpipe
become swollen, causing the hoarseness and the cough. There may also be a
fever and high-pitched noisy sounds when breathing. The symptoms are usually
worse at night, and last for about three to five days. Children between the
ages of 6 months and 3 years have the highest risk of getting croup. They may
also have more severe symptoms. Croup is more common in the fall and winter.

Most cases of viral croup are mild and can be treated at home. Rarely, croup
can become serious and interfere with your child's breathing. If you are
worried about your child's breathing, call your health care provider right
away.

## Learn More

    * Children and Croup (National Jewish Health) \- PDF
    * Croup (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Croup (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Croup (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Croup (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Croup and Your Young Child (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish
    * First Aid: Croup (Nemours Foundation)
    * Human Parainfluenza Viruses (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Laryngitis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Larynx & Trachea ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
    * Parainfluenza (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Croup ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Acute Upper Airway Obstruction.
    * Article: Vaccination Status and Resource Use During Hospital Visits for Respiratory Illnesses.
    * Article: Defining atypical croup: A case report and review of the literature.
    * Croup -- see more articles

## Topic Image

![A toddler sleeping in a parent's
arms](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Sleeping.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Croup is the Eunice Kennedy
Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 7 February 2019 Topic last reviewed: 31 December 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

