Link: https://medlineplus.gov/pain.html    
                                Description: Pain is a feeling triggered in the nervous system. You may feel it as a prick, tingle, sting, burn, or ache. Read about the causes and what can help.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Pain

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/pain.html

#  Pain

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Older Adults
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Pain is a signal in your nervous system that something may be wrong. It is an
unpleasant feeling, such as a prick, tingle, sting, burn, or ache. Pain may be
sharp or dull. It may come and go, or it may be constant. You may feel pain in
one area of your body, such as your back, abdomen, chest, pelvis, or you may
feel pain all over.

Pain can be helpful in diagnosing a problem. If you never felt pain, you might
seriously hurt yourself without knowing it, or you might not realize you have
a medical problem that needs treatment.

There are two types of pain: acute and chronic. Acute pain usually comes on
suddenly, because of a disease, injury, or inflammation. It can often be
diagnosed and treated. It usually goes away, though sometimes it can turn into
chronic pain. Chronic pain lasts for a long time, and can cause severe
problems.

Pain is not always curable, but there are many ways to treat it. Treatment
depends on the cause and type of pain. There are drug treatments, including
pain relievers. There are also non-drug treatments, such as acupuncture,
physical therapy, and sometimes surgery.

NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Start Here

    * Pain (Merck & Co., Inc.) Also in Spanish
    * Pain Management (American Society of Anesthesiologists)
    * Pain: Hope through Research ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Magnets for Pain Relief ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Managing Pain: Moving Beyond Opioids ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
    * Non-Drug Pain Relief: Imagery (Ohio State University Medical Center) \- PDF
    * Osteopathic Manipulative Treatment (American Osteopathic Association)
    * Pain ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Pain Relievers: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Pain: Considering Complementary Approaches (eBook) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Stress Management: Massage (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)

## Living With

    * Pain Management: Lifestyle & Management (American Geriatrics Society)
    * Quality of Life Scale: A Measure of Function for People with Pain (American Chronic Pain Association) \- PDF

## Related Issues

    * Depression (Major Depressive Disorder) (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Going to the ER (American Chronic Pain Association)
    * Pain Information Brochures ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (NIH Pain Consortium)
    * Somatic Symptom and Related Disorders (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Using Alcohol to Relieve Your Pain: What Are the Risks? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: congenital insensitivity to pain ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: paroxysmal extreme pain disorder ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Videos and Tutorials

    * Feeling pain ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Statistics and Research

    * Facts and Figures on Pain (American Academy of Pain Medicine)
    * Untangling the Source of Ouch and Itch ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of General Medical Sciences)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Pain ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Pain Management ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Pain Perception ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Infrapatellar nerve damage : AÂ neglected cause of severe localized leg pain.
    * Article: Pain level between clear aligners and fixed appliances: a systematic review.
    * Article: The effects of kinesiology taping on experimentally-induced thermal and mechanical pain...
    * Pain -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Find a Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation Physician (American Academy of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation)
    * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
    * NIH Pain Consortium ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * Why Do I Have Pain? (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Older Adults

    * Eldercare at Home: Pain Management (AGS Foundation for Health in Aging)
    * Pain: You Can Get Help ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Aches and pains during pregnancy (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Neuralgia (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Palliative care - managing pain (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Photograph of a woman clutching her stomach in
pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pain.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Aches and pains during pregnancy
    * Feeling pain
    * Groin pain
    * Muscle aches
    * Neuralgia
    * Palliative care - managing pain

## Related Health Topics

    * Abdominal Pain
    * Back Pain
    * Chest Pain
    * Chronic Pain
    * Complex Regional Pain Syndrome
    * Non-Drug Pain Management
    * Pain Relievers
    * Palliative Care
    * Pelvic Pain
    * Period Pain
    * Trigeminal Neuralgia

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Pain is the National Institute of
Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Pain_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 20 February 2020 Topic last reviewed: 10 August 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

