Link: https://medlineplus.gov/osteogenesisimperfecta.html    
                                Description: Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) is a genetic disorder in which bones break easily. Find out diagnosis, treatments, and living with OI.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Osteogenesis Imperfecta

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/osteogenesisimperfecta.html

#  Osteogenesis Imperfecta

Also called: Brittle bone disease, OI

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Symptoms
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) is a genetic disorder in which bones fracture
(break) easily. Sometimes the fractures happen for no known reason. OI can
also cause weak muscles, brittle teeth, a curved spine, and hearing loss. OI
is caused by one of several genes that aren't working properly. When these
genes don't work, it affects how you make collagen, a protein that helps make
bones strong.

OI can range from mild to severe, and symptoms vary from person to person. A
person may have just a few or as many as several hundred fractures in a
lifetime.

There is no specific test for OI. Your doctor uses your medical and family
history, physical exam, and imaging and lab tests to diagnose it. Your doctor
may also test your collagen (from skin) or genes (from blood). There is no
cure, but you can manage symptoms. Treatments include exercise, pain medicine,
physical therapy, wheelchairs, braces, and surgery.

NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases

## Start Here

    * Fast Facts on Osteogenesis Imperfecta (Osteogenesis Imperfecta Foundation) \- PDF
    * Osteogenesis Imperfecta ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases) Also in Spanish
    * What Is Osteogenesis Imperfecta? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases)

## Symptoms

    * What Are the Symptoms of Osteogenesis Imperfecta? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * How Do Health Care Providers Diagnose Osteogenesis Imperfecta? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Rodding Surgery (Osteogenesis Imperfecta Foundation) \- PDF
    * Surgery Considerations for Adults and Children (Osteogenesis Imperfecta Foundation) \- PDF
    * What Are the Treatments for Osteogenesis Imperfecta? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Living With

    * Exercise and Activity: Key Elements in the Management of OI ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases)
    * Hearing Loss and Osteogenesis Imperfecta (Osteogenesis Imperfecta Foundation) \- PDF
    * Nutrition and OI (Osteogenesis Imperfecta Foundation) \- PDF
    * OI Issues: Dental Care for Persons with OI (Osteogenesis Imperfecta Foundation) \- PDF
    * Preventing Vertebral Compression Fractures (Osteogenesis Imperfecta Foundation) \- PDF
    * Respiratory Issues in OI (Osteogenesis Imperfecta Foundation) \- PDF
    * Social and Emotional Issues of Living with OI (Osteogenesis Imperfecta Foundation) \- PDF
    * Treating Vertebral Compression Fractures (Osteogenesis Imperfecta Foundation) \- PDF

## Related Issues

    * Hypophosphatasia (Osteogenesis Imperfecta Foundation) \- PDF
    * Myths about OI (Osteogenesis Imperfecta) (Osteogenesis Imperfecta Foundation)

## Specifics

    * OI Issues: Type I - Understanding the Mildest Form of Osteogenesis Imperfecta ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases)
    * Osteogenesis Imperfecta Issues: Constipation (Osteogenesis Imperfecta Foundation) \- PDF
    * Types of OI (Osteogenesis Imperfecta Foundation)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: osteogenesis imperfecta ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Learning about Osteogenesis Imperfecta ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Human Genome Research Institute)

## Statistics and Research

    * Study in Mice Links Key Signaling Molecule to Underlying Cause of Osteogenesis Imperfecta ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Osteogenesis Imperfecta ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Phenotypic Properties of Collagen in Dentinogenesis Imperfecta Associated with Osteogenesis Imperfecta.
    * Article: Evaluation of Fracture and Osteotomy Union in the Setting of Osteogenesis...
    * Article: Acetabular Protrusio in Patients With Osteogenesis Imperfecta: Risk Factors and Progression.
    * Osteogenesis Imperfecta -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Understanding Bone Structure (Osteogenesis Imperfecta Foundation) \- PDF

## Find an Expert

    * National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
    * National Institutes of Health Osteoporosis and Related Bone Diseases~National Resource Center ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases)

## Children

    * Broken Bones (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)
    * Child Abuse or Osteogenesis Imperfecta? (Osteogenesis Imperfecta Foundation) \- PDF
    * Infant Care Suggestions for Parents (Osteogenesis Imperfecta Foundation) \- PDF
    * Planning for Your Child's Surgery (Osteogenesis Imperfecta) (Osteogenesis Imperfecta Foundation) \- PDF

## Teenagers

    * Transition from Pediatric to Adult OI Care (Osteogenesis Imperfecta Foundation) \- PDF

## Patient Handouts

    * Osteogenesis imperfecta (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Osteogenesis
Imperfecta](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OsteogenesisImperfecta.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Osteogenesis imperfecta

## Related Health Topics

    * Bone Diseases
    * Connective Tissue Disorders

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Osteogenesis Imperfecta is the
National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 27 February 2020 Topic last reviewed: 25 March 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

