Link: https://medlineplus.gov/hipinjuriesanddisorders.html    
                                Description: Take a look at some common and not so common hip injuries and disorders. Find tests and details on different problems of the hip and clinical trials.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Hip Injuries and Disorders

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/hipinjuriesanddisorders.html

#  Hip Injuries and Disorders

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Your hip is the joint where your femur (thigh bone) meets your pelvis (hip
bone). There are two main parts: a ball at the end of the femur, which fits in
a socket in the pelvis. Your hip is known as a ball-and-socket joint. This is
because you have a ball at the end of your femur, and it fits into a socket in
your pelvis. This makes your hips very stable and allows for a wide range of
motion. When they are healthy, it takes great force to hurt them. However,
playing sports, running, overuse, or falling can sometimes lead to hip
injuries such as

    * Strains
    * Bursitis
    * Dislocations
    * Fractures (broken bones)

Certain diseases also lead to hip injuries or problems. Osteoarthritis can
cause pain and limited motion. Osteoporosis of the hip causes weak bones that
break easily. Both of these are common in older people.

Another problem is hip dysplasia, where the ball at the end of the femur is
loose in the hip socket. It can cause hip dislocation. Babies who have hip
dysplasia are usually born with it, but sometimes they develop it later.

Treatment for hip disorders may include rest, medicines, physical therapy, or
surgery, including hip replacement.

## Start Here

    * Hip Problems (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Arthrography ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * Bone X-Ray (Radiography) ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * Hip Pain (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Hip Problems (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Hip Ultrasound (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * MRI of the Musculoskeletal System (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * Musculoskeletal Ultrasound (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Hip Replacement: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Living With

    * Hip Rehabilitation Exercises (American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons)
    * Managing Pain from a Broken Hip: A Guide for Adults and Their Caregivers (Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality) Also in Spanish
    * Mobility Aids: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) \- Canes, crutches, walkers, wheelchairs Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Femoroacetabular Impingement (FAI) (American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons)
    * Fracture After Total Hip Replacement (American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons)
    * Hip Fracture (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Hip Labral Tear (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Inflammatory Arthritis of the Hip (American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons)
    * Pigmented Villonodular Synovitis (PVNS) (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish

## Statistics and Research

    * Hip Fractures among Older Adults (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Femoral Neck Fractures ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hip Dislocation ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hip Fractures ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hip Injuries ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Pelvis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Intertrochanteric Femur Fracture Treatment in Asia: What We Know and What...
    * Article: Short (175 mm) versus standard (220 mm) length intramedullary nail for...
    * Article: Accelerated surgery versus standard care in hip fracture (HIP ATTACK): an...
    * Hip Injuries and Disorders -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
    * Find a Doctor in American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons (American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons)
    * Find a Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation Physician (American Academy of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation)
    * National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Children

    * Developmental Dislocation (Dysplasia) of the Hip (DDH) (American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons)
    * Developmental Dysplasia of the Hip (Nemours Foundation)
    * Hip Problems in Infants (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Legg-CalvÃ©-Perthes Disease (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)
    * Transient Synovitis of the Hip (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Ultrasound: Infant Hip (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * X-Ray Exam: Hip (Nemours Foundation)
    * X-Ray Exam: Pelvis (Nemours Foundation)

## Teenagers

    * Slipped Capital Femoral Epiphysis (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Developmental dysplasia of the hip (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Getting your home ready - knee or hip surgery (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Hip arthroscopy (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Hip flexor strain -- aftercare (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Hip fracture - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Hip fracture surgeries (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Hip joint injection (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Hip pain (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Legg-Calve-Perthes disease (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Slipped capital femoral epiphysis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Trochanteric bursitis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Hip Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HipInjuriesandDisorders.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Developmental dysplasia of the hip
    * Getting your home ready - knee or hip surgery
    * Hip arthroscopy
    * Hip flexor strain -- aftercare
    * Hip fracture - discharge
    * Hip fracture surgeries
    * Hip joint injection
    * Hip pain
    * Legg-Calve-Perthes disease
    * Pelvis x-ray
    * Slipped capital femoral epiphysis
    * Toxic synovitis
    * Trochanteric bursitis

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

    * Hip Replacement

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Hip Injuries and Disorders is the
National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Hip Injuries and
Disorders_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 31 August 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

