Link: https://medlineplus.gov/femaleinfertility.html    
                                Description: Infertility is when a woman can&#39;t get pregnant after a year or keeps having miscarriages. Read about female infertility, its causes, and treatments.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Female Infertility

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/femaleinfertility.html

#  Female Infertility

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Infertility means not being able to get pregnant after at least one year of
trying (or 6 months if the woman is over age 35). If a woman keeps having
miscarriages, it is also called infertility. Female infertility can result
from age, physical problems, hormone problems, and lifestyle or environmental
factors.

Most cases of infertility in women result from problems with producing eggs.
In primary ovarian insufficiency, the ovaries stop functioning before natural
menopause. In polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), the ovaries may not release an
egg regularly or they may not release a healthy egg.

About a third of the time, infertility is because of a problem with the woman.
One third of the time, it is a problem with the man. Sometimes no cause can be
found.

If you think you might be infertile, see your doctor. There are tests that may
tell if you have fertility problems. When it is possible to find the cause,
treatments may include medicines, surgery, or assisted reproductive
technologies. Happily, many couples treated for infertility are able to have
babies.

Dept. of Health and Human Services Office on Women's Health

## Start Here

    * Female Infertility (Hormone Health Network) Also in Spanish
    * Infertility Fact Sheet (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health) Also in Spanish
    * Trying to Conceive (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health) Also in Spanish
    * What Are Some Causes of Infertility? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Anti-MÃ¼llerian Hormone Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Diagnostic Testing for Female Infertility (American Society for Reproductive Medicine) \- PDF
    * Estrogen Levels Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Follicle-Stimulating Hormone (FSH) Levels Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Hysterosalpingogram (HSG) (American Society for Reproductive Medicine)
    * Karyotype Genetic Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Laparoscopy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Luteinizing Hormone (LH) Levels Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Pelvic laparoscopy - slideshow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Progesterone Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Prolactin Levels ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Sonohysterography (American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists)

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Assisted Reproductive Technology: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Fertility Treatments for Females ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
    * Intrauterine Insemination (IUI) (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Medications for Inducing Ovulation (American Society for Reproductive Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Ovarian Drilling for Infertility (American Society for Reproductive Medicine) \- PDF
    * Treatments for Diseases that Cause Infertility ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Living With

    * Weight and Fertility (American Society for Reproductive Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Diethylstilbestrol (DES) and Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Fertility Issues in Girls and Women with Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Multiple Pregnancy and Birth: Considering Fertility Treatments (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation) \- PDF
    * Side Effects of Injectable Fertility Drugs (Gonadotropins) (American Society for Reproductive Medicine)

## Specifics

    * Endometriosis: Does It Cause Infertility? (American Society for Reproductive Medicine) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Fallopian Tubes: Is Pregnancy Possible with Only One? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Hydrosalpinx (American Society for Reproductive Medicine)
    * Hyperprolactinemia (High Prolactin Levels) (American Society for Reproductive Medicine) \- PDF
    * What Age-Related Factors May Be Involved with Infertility in Females and Males? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development)
    * What do I need to Know About Conceiving After Tubal Surgery? (American Society for Reproductive Medicine) \- PDF

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: recurrent hydatidiform mole ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Videos and Tutorials

    * Ovulation ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Statistics and Research

    * Infertility Research at the NICHD ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Infertility, Female ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Imaging of Infertility, Part 2: Hysterosalpingograms to Magnetic Resonance Imaging.
    * Article: Imaging of Infertility, Part 1: Hysterosalpingograms to Magnetic Resonance Imaging.
    * Article: Efficacy and safety of platelet-rich plasma for the treatment of thin...
    * Female Infertility -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Female Reproductive System ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)

## Find an Expert

    * Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
    * womenshealth.gov (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Estradiol blood test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Luteinizing hormone (LH) blood test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Prolactin blood test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Female Infertility](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FemaleInfertility.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * D and C
    * D and C - slideshow
    * Estradiol blood test
    * Hysterosalpingography
    * Hysteroscopy
    * Intracytoplasmic sperm injection
    * LH urine test (home test)
    * Luteinizing hormone (LH) blood test
    * Ovulation
    * Pelvic laparoscopy
    * Pelvic laparoscopy - slideshow
    * Prolactin blood test
    * Serum progesterone

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

    * Assisted Reproductive Technology
    * Infertility
    * Male Infertility

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Female Infertility is the Eunice
Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 20 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 3 January 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

