Link: https://medlineplus.gov/pacemakersandimplantabledefibrillators.html    
                                Description: Pacemakers and implantable defibrillators are devices that monitor and help control abnormal heart rhythms. Learn who needs one, and how they work.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Pacemakers and Implantable Defibrillators

URL of this page:
https://medlineplus.gov/pacemakersandimplantabledefibrillators.html

#  Pacemakers and Implantable Defibrillators

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

An arrhythmia is any disorder of your heart rate or rhythm. It means that your
heart beats too quickly, too slowly, or with an irregular pattern. Most
arrhythmias result from problems in the electrical system of the heart. If
your arrhythmia is serious, you may need a cardiac pacemaker or an implantable
cardioverter defibrillator (ICD). They are devices that are implanted in your
chest or abdomen.

A pacemaker helps control abnormal heart rhythms. It uses electrical pulses to
prompt the heart to beat at a normal rate. It can speed up a slow heart
rhythm, control a fast heart rhythm, and coordinate the chambers of the heart.

An ICD monitors heart rhythms. If it senses dangerous rhythms, it delivers
shocks. This treatment is called defibrillation. An ICD can help control life-
threatening arrhythmias, especially those that can cause sudden cardiac arrest
(SCA). Most new ICDs can act as both a pacemaker and a defibrillator. Many
ICDs also record the heart's electrical patterns when there is an abnormal
heartbeat. This can help the doctor plan future treatment.

Getting a pacemaker or ICD requires minor surgery. You usually need to stay in
the hospital for a day or two, so your doctor can make sure that the device is
working well. You will probably be back to your normal activities within a few
days.

## Start Here

    * Cardioverter-Defibrillator: A Treatment for Arrhythmia (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Defibrillators ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)
    * Devices for Arrhythmia (American Heart Association)
    * Pacemakers ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)
    * What Is a Pacemaker? ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (American Heart Association) \- PDF

## Living With

    * Coping With My Partner's ICD and Cardiac Disease (American Heart Association)
    * Living with Your Implantable Cardioverter Defibrillator (ICD) (American Heart Association)

## Related Issues

    * Coping with Trauma and Stressful Events As a Patient with an Implantable Cardioverter-Defibrillator (American Heart Association)
    * Devices that May Interfere with ICDs and Pacemakers (American Heart Association)
    * Questions to Ask Your Doctor--Implantable Cardioverter Defibrillator (ICD) (American Heart Association)
    * Sexual Health for Patients with an Implantable Cardioverter Defibrillator (American Heart Association)

## Specifics

    * Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy (CRT) (American Heart Association)

## Statistics and Research

    * Shock from heart device often triggers further health care needs (American Heart Association)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Defibrillators, Implantable ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Pacemaker, Artificial ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Current guidelines for MRI safety in patients with cardiovascular implantable electronic...
    * Article: Biological Pacemakers: Still a Dream?
    * Article: Current state of leadless pacemakers: state of the art review.
    * Pacemakers and Implantable Defibrillators -- see more articles
    * Implantable defibrillators -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * American Heart Association
    * Find a Heart Rhythm Specialist (Heart Rhythm Society)
    * Heart Rhythm Society
    * National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * My Child Needs or Has an Implantable Cardioverter-Defibrillator: What Should I Do? (American Heart Association)

## Patient Handouts

    * Heart failure - surgeries and devices (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Heart pacemaker (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Heart pacemaker - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Implantable cardioverter defibrillator - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Pacemakers and Implantable
Defibrillators](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pacemaker.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Heart failure - surgeries and devices
    * Heart pacemaker
    * Heart pacemaker - discharge
    * Implantable cardioverter defibrillator - discharge
    * Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator

## Related Health Topics

    * Arrhythmia
    * Heart Failure

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Pacemakers and Implantable
Defibrillators is the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Pacemakers and
Implantable Defibrillators_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 31 December 2019 Topic last reviewed: 28 February 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

