Link: https://medlineplus.gov/bonemarrowtransplantation.html    
                                Description: Bone marrow transplantation replaces faulty bone marrow with healthy bone marrow from a donor. Learn about the possible risks, and procedure.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Bone Marrow Transplantation

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/bonemarrowtransplantation.html

#  Bone Marrow Transplantation

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here

### Learn More

  * Living With
  * Related Issues
  * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

  * Images
  * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

  * Statistics and Research
  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Children
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Bone marrow is the spongy tissue inside some of your bones, such as your hip
and thigh bones. It contains immature cells, called stem cells. The stem cells
can develop into red blood cells, which carry oxygen throughout the body,
white blood cells, which fight infections, and platelets, which help the blood
to clot.

A bone marrow transplant is a procedure that replaces a person's faulty bone
marrow stem cells. Doctors use these transplants to treat people with certain
diseases, such as

  * Leukemia
  * Severe blood diseases such as thalassemias, aplastic anemia, and sickle cell anemia
  * Multiple myeloma
  * Certain immune deficiency diseases

Before you have a transplant, you need to get high doses of chemotherapy and
possibly radiation. This destroys the faulty stem cells in your bone marrow.
It also suppresses your body's immune system so that it won't attack the new
stem cells after the transplant.

In some cases, you can donate your own bone marrow stem cells in advance. The
cells are saved and then used later on. Or you can get cells from a donor. The
donor might be a family member or unrelated person.

Bone marrow transplantation has serious risks. Some complications can be life-
threatening. But for some people, it is the best hope for a cure or a longer
life.

NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Start Here

  * Blood and Bone Marrow Transplant? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)
  * Blood-Forming Stem Cell Transplants ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
  * Find a Donor (National Marrow Donor Program)
  * Learn About Bone Marrow Transplantation as a Treatment Option (Health Resources and Services Administration)
  * What Is a Bone Marrow Transplant? (National Marrow Donor Program)
  * What is it Like to Get a Stem Cell Transplant? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Living With

  * Life After Transplant (National Marrow Donor Program)

## Related Issues

  * Choosing a Transplant Center (National Marrow Donor Program)
  * Graft-Versus-Host-Disease (National Marrow Donor Program)
  * Learning about Your Disease (National Marrow Donor Program)
  * Physical Health and Recovery (National Marrow Donor Program)
  * Planning for a Bone Marrow Transplant (BMT) (Health Resources and Services Administration)
  * Stem Cell Transplant Patients and Fungal Infections (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Stem Cell Transplant Side Effects (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
  * Treatment Before Transplant (National Marrow Donor Program)
  * What's It Like to Donate Stem Cells? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

  * Donation FAQs (National Marrow Donor Program)

## Images

  * Bone-marrow transplant - slideshow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Videos and Tutorials

  * Becoming a Blood Stem Cell Donor ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (National Cancer Institute)

## Statistics and Research

  * Donation and Transplantation Statistics (Health Resources and Services Administration)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Bone Marrow Transplantation ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Addition of anti-thymocyte globulin to standard graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis versus standard...
  * Article: Comparison of intervertebral fusion rates of different bone graft materials in...
  * Article: Combined Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery With Bone Marrow Stem Cell Transplantation:...
  * Bone Marrow Transplantation -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

  * National Cancer Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Children

  * Patients and families (National Marrow Donor Program)

## Patient Handouts

  * Bone marrow (stem cell) donation (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Bone marrow transplant (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Bone marrow transplant - children - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Bone marrow transplant - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Bone Marrow
Transplantation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneMarrowTransplantation.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Bone marrow (stem cell) donation
  * Bone marrow transplant
  * Bone marrow transplant - children - discharge
  * Bone marrow transplant - discharge
  * Bone-marrow transplant - slideshow
  * Graft-versus-host disease

## Related Health Topics

  * Bone Marrow Diseases
  * Stem Cells

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Bone Marrow Transplantation is
the National Cancer Institute

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 19 February 2020 Topic last reviewed: 17 April 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

