Link: https://medlineplus.gov/periodpain.html    
                                Description: Period pain affects many women, and it can be severe. Learn about the cause of menstrual cramps, what you can do to feel better, and when you need to see a doctor.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Period Pain

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/periodpain.html

#  Period Pain

Also called: Dysmenorrhea, Menstrual cramps, Menstrual pain

## Summary

### What are painful periods?

Menstruation, or period, is normal vaginal bleeding that happens as part of a
woman's monthly cycle. Many women have painful periods, also called
dysmenorrhea. The pain is most often menstrual cramps, which are a throbbing,
cramping pain in your lower abdomen. You may also have other symptoms, such as
lower back pain, nausea, diarrhea, and headaches. Period pain is not the same
as premenstrual syndrome (PMS). PMS causes many different symptoms, including
weight gain, bloating, irritability, and fatigue. PMS often starts one to two
weeks before your period starts.

### What causes painful periods?

There are two types of dysmenorrhea: primary and secondary. Each type has
different causes.

Primary dysmenorrhea is the most common kind of period pain. It is period pain
that is not caused by another condition. The cause is usually having too many
prostaglandins, which are chemicals that your uterus makes. These chemicals
make the muscles of your uterus tighten and relax, and this causes the cramps.

The pain can start a day or two before your period. It normally lasts for a
few days, though in some women it can last longer.

You usually first start having period pain when you are younger, just after
you begin getting periods. Often, as you get older, you have less pain. The
pain may also get better after you have given birth.

Secondary dysmenorrhea often starts later in life. It is caused by conditions
that affect your uterus or other reproductive organs, such as endometriosis
and uterine fibroids. This kind of pain often gets worse over time. It may
begin before your period starts, and continue after your period ends.

### What can I do about period pain?

To help ease your period pain, you can try

    * Using a heating pad or hot water bottle on your lower abdomen
    * Getting some exercise
    * Taking a hot bath
    * Doing relaxation techniques, including yoga and meditation

You might also try taking over-the-counter pain relievers such as nonsteroidal
anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). NSAIDs include ibuprofen and naproxen.
Besides relieving pain, NSAIDs reduce the amount of prostaglandins that your
uterus makes, and lessen their effects. This helps to lessen the cramps. You
can take NSAIDs when you first have symptoms, or when your period starts. You
can keep taking them for a few days. You should not take NSAIDS if you have
ulcers or other stomach problems, bleeding problems, or liver disease. You
should also not take them if you are allergic to aspirin. Always check with
your health care provider if you are not sure whether or not you should take
NSAIDs.

It may also help to get enough rest and avoid using alcohol and tobacco.

### When should I get medical help for my period pain?

For many women, some pain during your period is normal. However, you should
contact your health care provider if

    * NSAIDs and self-care measures don't help, and the pain interferes with your life
    * Your cramps suddenly get worse
    * You are over 25 and you get severe cramps for the first time
    * You have a fever with your period pain
    * You have the pain even when you are not getting your period

### How is the cause of severe period pain diagnosed?

To diagnose severe period pain, your health care provider will ask you about
your medical history and do a pelvic exam. You may also have an ultrasound or
other imaging test. If your health care provider thinks you have secondary
dysmenorrhea, you might have laparoscopy. It is a surgery that that lets your
health care provider look inside your body.

### What are treatments for severe period pain?

If your period pain is primary dysmenorrhea and you need medical treatment,
your health care provider might suggest using hormonal birth control, such as
the pill, patch, ring, or IUD. Another treatment option might be prescription
pain relievers.

If you have secondary dysmenorrhea, your treatment depends upon the condition
that is causing the problem. In some cases, you may need surgery.

## Learn More

    * Dysmenorrhea (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Dysmenorrhea: Painful Periods (American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists) \- PDF
    * Menstrual Cramps (Children's Hospital Boston) Also in Spanish
    * Menstrual Cramps (Dysmenorrhea) (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Period Cramps (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Dysmenorrhea ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Time-effective analgesic effect of acupressure ankle strip pressing wrist and ankle...
    * Article: Comparison of the immediate analgesic effect of perpendicular needling and transverse...
    * Article: Moxibustion for the treatment of primary dysmenorrhea: Protocol for an overview...
    * Period Pain -- see more articles

## Patient Handouts

    * Painful menstrual periods (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Period Pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeriodPain.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 18 March 2019 Topic last reviewed: 15 November 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

