Link: https://medlineplus.gov/carpaltunnelsyndrome.html    
                                Description: Is the numbness and pain in your arm and wrist a passing cramp or carpal tunnel syndrome? Learn about carpal tunnel syndrome symptoms and treatment.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Carpal Tunnel Syndrome

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/carpaltunnelsyndrome.html

#  Carpal Tunnel Syndrome

Also called: Median nerve entrapment

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Women
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

You're working at your desk, trying to ignore the tingling or numbness you've
had for some time in your hand and wrist. Suddenly, a sharp, piercing pain
shoots through the wrist and up your arm. Just a passing cramp? It could be
carpal tunnel syndrome.

The carpal tunnel is a narrow passageway of ligament and bones at the base of
your hand. It contains nerve and tendons. Sometimes, thickening from irritated
tendons or other swelling narrows the tunnel and causes the nerve to be
compressed. Symptoms usually start gradually. As they worsen, grasping objects
can become difficult.

Often, the cause is having a smaller carpal tunnel than other people do. Other
causes include performing assembly line work, wrist injury, or swelling due to
certain diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis. Women are three times more
likely to have carpal tunnel syndrome than men.

Early diagnosis and treatment are important to prevent permanent nerve damage.
Your doctor diagnoses carpal tunnel syndrome with a physical exam and special
nerve tests. Treatment includes resting your hand, splints, pain and anti-
inflammatory medicines, and sometimes surgery.

NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Start Here

    * Carpal Tunnel Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) Also in Spanish
    * Carpal Tunnel Syndrome (American College of Rheumatology)
    * Finger Numbness: Could It Be Carpal Tunnel Syndrome? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Electromyography (EMG) and Nerve Conduction Studies ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Wrist Pain (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * X-Rays: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Computer Workstations: Keyboards (Occupational Safety and Health Administration)
    * Computer Workstations: Wrist/Palm Supports (Occupational Safety and Health Administration)

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Carpal Tunnel Exercises: Can They Relieve Symptoms? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Carpal tunnel repair - slideshow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Hand Surgery Anesthesia (American Society for Surgery of the Hand)
    * Joint and Soft Tissue Injections (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Wrist Arthroscopy (American Society for Surgery of the Hand)

## Living With

    * Hand Therapy (American Society for Surgery of the Hand, American Society of Hand Therapists)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: carpal tunnel syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: hereditary neuropathy with liability to pressure palsies ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Carpal Tunnel Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: The Risk of Complications after Carpal Tunnel Release in Patients Taking...
    * Article: Acupotomy for patients with carpal tunnel syndrome: A systematic review protocol.
    * Article: Pain as a determinant of health-related quality of life in patients...
    * Carpal Tunnel Syndrome -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * American Society for Surgery of the Hand
    * Find a Hand Surgeon (American Society for Surgery of the Hand)
    * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Children

    * Carpal Tunnel Syndrome (For Kids) (Nemours Foundation)

## Women

    * Carpal Tunnel Syndrome (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Carpal tunnel biopsy (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Carpal tunnel release (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Carpal tunnel syndrome (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Carpal Tunnel
Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CarpalTunnelSyndrome.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Carpal tunnel biopsy
    * Carpal tunnel release
    * Carpal tunnel repair - slideshow
    * Carpal tunnel syndrome

## Related Health Topics

    * Hand Injuries and Disorders
    * Wrist Injuries and Disorders

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Carpal Tunnel Syndrome is the
National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 20 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 4 October 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

