Link: https://medlineplus.gov/cocaine.html    
                                Description: Cocaine, also called crack cocaine, is a highly addictive stimulant. It can be snorted, injected, or smoked. Learn about health effects and treatment.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Cocaine

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/cocaine.html

#  Cocaine

Also called: Blow, C, Coca, Coke, Crack, Flake, Snow

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * No links available

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Teenagers
    * Women
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Cocaine is a white powder. It can be snorted up the nose or mixed with water
and injected with a needle. Cocaine can also be made into small white rocks,
called crack. Crack is smoked in a small glass pipe.

Cocaine speeds up your whole body. You may feel full of energy, happy, and
excited. But then your mood can change. You can become angry, nervous, and
afraid that someone's out to get you. You might do things that make no sense.
After the "high" of the cocaine wears off, you can "crash" and feel tired and
sad for days. You also get a strong craving to take the drug again to try to
feel better.

No matter how cocaine is taken, it is dangerous. Some of the most common
serious problems include heart attack and stroke. You are also at risk for
HIV/AIDS and hepatitis, from sharing needles or having unsafe sex. Cocaine is
more dangerous when combined with other drugs or alcohol.

It is easy to lose control over cocaine use and become addicted. Then, even if
you get treatment, it can be hard to stay off the drug. People who stopped
using cocaine can still feel strong cravings for the drug, sometimes even
years later.

NIH: National Institute on Drug Abuse

## Start Here

    * Cocaine ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse)
    * Cocaine ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish
    * Cocaine (Coke, Crack) Facts ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Drug Testing ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Signs of Cocaine Abuse and Addiction ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Treatment Approaches for Drug Addiction ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish
    * What Is Substance Abuse Treatment? A Booklet for Families (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Images

    * Cocaine (Drug Enforcement Administration)

## Statistics and Research

    * Trends in the Prevalence of Marijuana, Cocaine, and Other Illegal Drug Use (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Cocaine Smoking ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Cocaine-Related Disorders ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Crack Cocaine ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Cocaine Use in Adolescents and Young Adults.
    * Article: Responding to global stimulant use: challenges and opportunities.
    * Article: Rivastigmine does not alter cocaine-induced subjective effects or self-administration.
    * Cocaine -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Behavioral Health Treatment Services Locator (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration)
    * Drug Enforcement Administration
    * National Institute on Drug Abuse ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
    * Partnership at Drugfree.org (Partnership for a Drug-Free America)

## Teenagers

    * Cocaine (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Cocaine ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish
    * Mind Over Matter: The Brain's Response to Cocaine ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse)

## Women

    * Cocaine and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Cocaine withdrawal (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Substance use -- cocaine (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Tips for Teens: The Truth about Cocaine (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration) \- PDF

## Topic Image

![Cocaine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cocaine2.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Cocaine intoxication
    * Cocaine withdrawal
    * Substance use -- cocaine

## Related Health Topics

    * Drug Use and Addiction

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Cocaine is the National Institute
on Drug Abuse

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 21 April 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

