Link: https://medlineplus.gov/irritablebowelsyndrome.html    
                                Description: Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) can cause a great deal of discomfort. Learn about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of IBS.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Irritable Bowel Syndrome

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/irritablebowelsyndrome.html

#  Irritable Bowel Syndrome

Also called: IBS, Irritable colon

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Symptoms
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Health Check Tools

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Women
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a problem that affects the large intestine.
It can cause abdominal cramping, bloating, and a change in bowel habits. Some
people with the disorder have constipation. Some have diarrhea. Others go back
and forth between the two. Although IBS can cause a great deal of discomfort,
it does not harm the intestines.

IBS is common. It affects about twice as many women as men and is most often
found in people younger than 45 years. No one knows the exact cause of IBS.
There is no specific test for it. Your doctor may run tests to be sure you
don't have other diseases. These tests may include stool sampling tests, blood
tests, and x-rays. Your doctor may also do a test called a sigmoidoscopy or
colonoscopy. Most people diagnosed with IBS can control their symptoms with
diet, stress management, probiotics, and medicine.

NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Start Here

    * Definition and Facts for Irritable Bowel Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
    * Grumbling Guts? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * Introduction to IBS (International Foundation for Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders)
    * Irritable Bowel Syndrome (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)

## Symptoms

    * Recognizing Symptoms (International Foundation for Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders)
    * Symptoms and Causes of Irritable Bowel Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Colonoscopy: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Diagnosis of Irritable Bowel Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * 6 Tips: IBS and Complementary Health Practices ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Hypnosis for IBS (International Foundation for Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders)
    * IBS Treatment Options (International Foundation for Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders)
    * Irritable Bowel Syndrome and Complementary Health Practices ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Irritable Bowel Syndrome Treatments Aren't One-Size-Fits-All (Food and Drug Administration) Also in Spanish
    * Medications (for IBS) ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (International Foundation for Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders)
    * Peppermint Oil ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Probiotics: In Depth ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Psychological Treatment (International Foundation for Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders)
    * Treatment for Irritable Bowel Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish

## Living With

    * Are You a Gut Responder? Hints on Coping with an Irritable Bowel (International Foundation for Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders)
    * Eating, Diet, and Nutrition for Irritable Bowel Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
    * IBS Diet (International Foundation for Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders)
    * Relaxation Techniques to Manage IBS Symptoms (International Foundation for Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders)
    * Sleep and Irritable Bowel Syndrome (International Foundation for Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders)
    * Travel Tips Help IBS Sufferers Enjoy Their Vacations (International Foundation for Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders)

## Related Issues

    * Gut Troubles: Pain, Gassiness, Bloating, and More ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
    * IBS and Non-GI Functional Disorders (International Foundation for Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders)
    * Spastic Colon: What Does It Mean? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Post-Infectious IBS (IBS-PI) (International Foundation for Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders) \- PDF

## Health Check Tools

    * Take the IBS Test (American College of Gastroenterology) \- PDF

## Statistics and Research

    * Complementary Health Approaches for Irritable Bowel Syndrome: What the Science Says ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Colonic Diseases, Functional ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: 5-Aminosalicylic acid for treatment of irritable bowel syndrome: A protocol for...
    * Article: Effects of Bifidobacterium longum BB536 and Lactobacillus rhamnosus HN001 in IBS...
    * Article: Comparison between the Effects of Acupuncture Relative to Other Controls on...
    * Irritable Bowel Syndrome -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Find a Gastroenterologist (American College of Gastroenterology)
    * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * Irritable Bowel Syndrome (Nemours Foundation)
    * Irritable Bowel Syndrome in Children ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Teenagers

    * Irritable Bowel Syndrome (Nemours Foundation)

## Women

    * Pregnancy and Irritable Bowel Syndrome (International Foundation for Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders)

## Patient Handouts

    * Irritable bowel syndrome (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![SÃ­ndrome del intestino
irritable](https://medlineplus.gov/images/IrritableBowelSyndrome.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Irritable bowel syndrome

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Irritable Bowel Syndrome is the
National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Irritable Bowel
Syndrome_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 5 April 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

