Link: https://medlineplus.gov/howtolowercholesterolwithdiet.html    
                                Description: One important way to lower your cholesterol is through diet. Learn which foods to avoid, which ones you should limit, and what you can eat instead.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

How to Lower Cholesterol with Diet

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/howtolowercholesterolwithdiet.html

#  How to Lower Cholesterol with Diet

Also called: Low Cholesterol Diet, Therapeutic Lifestyle Changes Diet, TLC
Diet

## Summary

### What is cholesterol?

Your body needs some cholesterol to work properly. But if you have too much in
your blood, it can stick to the walls of your arteries and narrow or even
block them. This puts you at risk for coronary artery disease and other heart
diseases.

Cholesterol travels through the blood on proteins called lipoproteins. One
type, LDL, is sometimes called the "bad" cholesterol. A high LDL level leads
to a buildup of cholesterol in your arteries. Another type, HDL, is sometimes
called the "good" cholesterol. It carries cholesterol from other parts of your
body back to your liver. Then your liver removes the cholesterol from your
body.

### What are the treatments for high cholesterol?

The treatments for high cholesterol are heart-healthy lifestyle changes and
medicines. The lifestyle changes include healthy eating, weight management,
and regular physical activity.

### How can I lower cholesterol with diet?

Heart-healthy lifestyle changes include a diet to lower your cholesterol. The
DASH eating plan is one example. Another is the Therapeutic Lifestyle Changes
diet, which recommends that you

**Choose healthier fats.** You should limit both total fat and saturated fat.
No more than 25 to 35 percent of your daily calories should come from dietary
fats, and less than 7 percent of your daily calories should come from
saturated fat. Depending upon how many calories you eat per day, here are the
maximum amounts of fats that you should eat:

Calories per Day | Total Fat | Saturated Fat  
---|---|---  
1,500 | 42-58 grams | 10 grams  
2,000 | 56-78 grams | 13 grams  
2,500 | 69-97 grams | 17 grams  
  

Saturated fat is a bad fat because it raises your LDL (bad cholesterol) level
more than anything else in your diet. It is found in some meats, dairy
products, chocolate, baked goods, and deep-fried and processed foods.

Trans fat is another bad fat; it can raise your LDL and lower you HDL (good
cholesterol). Trans fat is mostly in foods made with hydrogenated oils and
fats, such as stick margarine, crackers, and french fries.

Instead of these bad fats, try healthier fats, such as lean meat, nuts, and
unsaturated oils like canola, olive, and safflower oils.

**Limit foods with cholesterol.** If you are trying to lower your cholesterol,
you should have less than 200 mg a day of cholesterol. Cholesterol is in foods
of animal origin, such as liver and other organ meats, egg yolks, shrimp, and
whole milk dairy products.

**Eat plenty of soluble fiber.** Foods high in soluble fiber help prevent your
digestive tract from absorbing cholesterol. These foods include

    * Whole-grain cereals such as oatmeal and oat bran
    * Fruits such as apples, bananas, oranges, pears, and prunes
    * Legumes such as kidney beans, lentils, chick peas, black-eyed peas, and lima beans

**Eat lots of fruits and vegetables.** A diet rich in fruits and vegetables
can increase important cholesterol-lowering compounds in your diet. These
compounds, called plant stanols or sterols, work like soluble fiber.

**Eat fish that are high in omega-3 fatty acids.** These acids won't lower
your LDL level, but they may help raise your HDL level. They may also protect
your heart from blood clots and inflammation and reduce your risk of heart
attack. Fish that are a good source of omega-3 fatty acids include salmon,
tuna (canned or fresh), and mackerel. Try to eat these fish two times a week.

**Limit salt.** You should try to limit the amount of sodium (salt) that you
eat to no more than 2,300 milligrams (about 1 teaspoon of salt) a day. That
includes all the sodium you eat, whether it was added in cooking or at the
table, or already present in food products. Limiting salt won't lower your
cholesterol, but it can lower your risk of heart diseases by helping to lower
your blood pressure. You can reduce your sodium by instead choosing low-salt
and "no added salt" foods and seasonings at the table or while cooking.

**Limit alcohol.** Alcohol adds extra calories, which can lead to weight gain.
Being overweight can raise your LDL level and lower your HDL level. Too much
alcohol can also increase your risk of heart diseases because it can raise
your blood pressure and triglyceride level. One drink is a glass of wine,
beer, or a small amount of hard liquor, and the recommendation is that

    * Men should have no more than two drinks containing alcohol a day
    * Women should have no more than one drink containing alcohol a day

Nutrition labels can help you figure out how much fat, saturated fat,
cholesterol, fiber, and sodium is in the foods that you buy.

NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Learn More

    * Butter, margarine, and cooking oils (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * DASH Diet: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Dietary fats explained (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Facts about monounsaturated fats (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Facts about polyunsaturated fats (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Facts about saturated fats (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Facts about trans fats (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * High-fiber foods (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * How to read food labels (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Mediterranean diet (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Omega-3 fats: Good for your heart (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Simple, heart-smart substitutions (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Low Cholesterol Diet ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Effect of daily consumption of extra virgin olive oil on the...
    * Article: Phospholipid packing defects and oxysterols in atherosclerosis: Dietary prevention and the...
    * Article: Serum Concentration of Plant Sterol Oxidation Products (POP) Compared to Cholesterol...
    * How to Lower Cholesterol with Diet -- see more articles

## Topic Image

![Low Cholesterol Diet](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LowCholesterolDiet.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## Related Health Topics

    * Cholesterol
    * Dietary Fats
    * Dietary Fiber
    * HDL: The "Good" Cholesterol
    * How to Lower Cholesterol
    * LDL: The "Bad" Cholesterol
    * Nutrition
    * Triglycerides

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on How to Lower Cholesterol with
Diet is the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 27 February 2019 Topic last reviewed: 16 January 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

