Link: https://medlineplus.gov/vonhippellindaudisease.html    
                                Description: Von Hippel-Lindau disease (VHL) is a rare, genetic disease that causes tumors and cysts to grow in your body.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Von Hippel-Lindau Disease

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/vonhippellindaudisease.html

#  Von Hippel-Lindau Disease

Also called: VHL

## Summary

### What is Von Hippel-Lindau disease (VHL)?

Von Hippel-Lindau disease (VHL) is a rare disease that causes tumors and cysts
to grow in your body. They can grow in your brain and spinal cord, kidneys,
pancreas, adrenal glands, and reproductive tract. The tumors are usually
benign (non-cancerous). But some tumors, such as those in the kidney and
pancreas, can become cancerous.

### What causes Von Hippel-Lindau disease (VHL)?

Von Hippel-Lindau disease (VHL) is a genetic disease. It is inherited, which
means that it is passed down from parent to child.

### What are the symptoms of Von Hippel-Lindau disease (VHL)?

Symptoms of VHL depend on the size and location of the tumors. They may
include

    * Headaches
    * Problems with balance and walking
    * Dizziness
    * Weakness of the limbs
    * Vision problems
    * High blood pressure

### How is Von Hippel-Lindau disease (VHL) diagnosed?

Detecting and treating VHL early is important. Your health care provider may
suspect that you have VHL if you have certain patterns of cysts and tumors.
There is a genetic test for VHL. If you have it, you will need other tests,
including imaging tests, to look for tumors and cysts.

### What are the treatments for Von Hippel-Lindau disease (VHL)?

Treatment can vary, depending on the location and size of the tumors and
cysts. It usually involves surgery. Certain tumors may be treated with
radiation therapy. The goal is to treat growths while they are small and
before they do permanent damage. You will need to have careful monitoring by a
doctor and/or medical team familiar with the disorder.

NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Learn More

    * Find a Genetic Counselor (National Society of Genetic Counselors)
    * Living with VHL (VHL Alliance)
    * VHL Manifestations (VHL Alliance)
    * Von Hippel-Lindau Disease (VHL) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Von Hippel-Lindau Syndrome (American Society of Clinical Oncology)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: von Hippel-Lindau syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: von Hippel-Lindau Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Novel gene mutation in von Hippel-Lindau disease - a report of...
    * Article: Efficacy of Retinal Lesion Screening in Von Hippel-Lindau Patients With Widefield...
    * Article: Continuous angiogenesis inhibition in the treatment for von Hippel-Lindau-related hemangioblastomas of...
    * Von Hippel-Lindau Disease -- see more articles

## Topic Image

![Von Hippel-Lindau Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VonHippel-
LindauDisease.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Von Hippel-Lindau Disease is the
National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 23 October 2018 Topic last reviewed: 7 April 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

