Link: https://medlineplus.gov/pagetsdiseaseofbone.html    
                                Description: Paget&#39;s disease of bone causes your bones to grow too large and weak. It can cause pain and damage in the bones. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Paget's Disease of Bone

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/pagetsdiseaseofbone.html

#  Paget's Disease of Bone

Also called: Osteitis deformans

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is Paget's disease of bone?

Paget's disease of bone is a chronic bone disorder. Normally, there is a
process in which your bones break down and then regrow. In Paget's disease,
this process is abnormal. There is excessive breakdown and regrowth of bone.
Because the bones regrow too quickly, they are bigger and softer than normal.
They may be misshapen and easily fractured (broken). Paget's usually affects
just one or a few bones.

### What causes Paget's disease of bone?

Researchers do not know for sure what causes Paget's disease. Environmental
factors may play a role. In some cases, the disease runs in families, and
several genes have been linked to the disease.

### Who is at risk for Paget's disease of bone?

The disease is more common in older people and those of northern European
heritage. If you have a close relative who has Paget's, you are much more
likely to have it.

### What are the symptoms of Paget's disease of bone?

Many people do not know that they have Paget's, because it often has no
symptoms. When there are symptoms, they are similar to those of arthritis and
other disorders. The symptoms include

    * **Pain** , which may be due to the disease or to arthritis, which can be a complication of Paget's
    * **Headaches and hearing loss**, which can happen when Paget's disease affects the skull
    * **Pressure on the nerves** , which can happen when Paget's disease affects the skull or spine
    * **Increased head size, bowing of a limb, or curvature of the spine.** This can happen in advanced cases.
    * **Hip pain** , if Paget's disease affects the pelvis or thighbone
    * **Damage to the cartilage of your joints** , which may lead to arthritis

Usually, Paget's disease gets worse slowly over time. It does not spread to
normal bones.

### What other problems can Paget's disease of bone cause?

Paget's disease can lead to other complications, such as

    * Arthritis, because the misshapen bones can cause increased pressure and more wear and tear on the joints
    * Heart failure. In severe Paget's disease, the heart has to work harder to pump blood to affected bones. Heart failure is more likely if you also have hardening of the arteries.
    * Kidney stones, which can happen when the excessive breakdown of the bone leads to extra calcium in the body
    * Nervous system problems, since the bones can cause pressure on the brain, spinal cord, or nerves. There may also be reduced blood flow to the brain and spinal cord.
    * Osteosarcoma, cancer of the bone
    * Loose teeth, if Paget's disease affects the facial bones
    * Vision loss, if Paget's disease in the skull affects the nerves. This is rare.

### How is Paget's disease of bone diagnosed?

To make a diagnosis, your health care provider

    * Will take your medical history and ask about your symptoms
    * Will do a physical exam
    * Will do an x-ray of the affected bones. Paget's disease is almost always diagnosed using x-rays.
    * May do an alkaline phosphatase blood test
    * May do a bone scan

Sometimes the disease is found by accident when one of these tests is done for
another reason.

### What are the treatments for Paget's disease of bone?

To avoid complications, it is important to find and treat Paget's disease
early. The treatments include

    * **Medicines.** There are several different medicines to treat Paget's disease. The most common type is bisphosphonates. They help reduce bone pain and stop or slow down the progress of the disease.
    * **Surgery** is sometimes needed for certain complications of the disease. There are surgeries to 
      * Allow fractures (broken bones) to heal in a better position
      * Replace joints such as the knee and hip when there is severe arthritis
      * Realign a deformed bone to reduce the pain in weight-bearing joints, especially the knees
      * Reduce pressure on a nerve, if enlargement of the skull or spine injuries effects the nervous system

Diet and exercise do not treat Paget's, but they can help to keep your
skeleton healthy. If you do not have kidney stones, you should make sure to
get enough calcium and vitamin D through your diet and supplements. Besides
keeping your skeleton healthy, exercise can prevent weight gain and maintain
the mobility of your joints. Talk with your health care provider before you
start a new exercise program. You need to make sure that the exercise does not
put too much stress on the affected bones.

NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases

## Start Here

    * Paget's Disease of Bone Overview ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Alkaline Phosphatase ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Bone Markers (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
    * Bone Scan (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * How Is Paget's Disease of Bone Diagnosed? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases)
    * Information for People Newly Diagnosed With Paget's Disease of Bone ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases)

## Related Issues

    * Paget's Disease of Bone and Osteoarthritis: Different Yet Related ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: inclusion body myopathy with early-onset Paget disease and frontotemporal dementia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Paget disease of bone ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Osteitis Deformans ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Management of Hydrocephalus in Paget's Disease of Bone: Systematic Review and...
    * Article: Clinical Reasoning: Progressive proximal weakness in a 56-year-old man with bone...
    * Article: Paget disease of bone in an elderly patient with chronic renal...
    * Paget's Disease of Bone -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Find a Rheumatologist (American College of Rheumatology)
    * Find an Endocrinologist (Hormone Health Network)
    * National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
    * National Institutes of Health Osteoporosis and Related Bone Diseases~National Resource Center ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases)

## Patient Handouts

    * ALP - blood test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * ALP isoenzyme test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Paget disease of the bone (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Paget's Disease of
Bone](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PagetsDiseaseofBone.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * ALP - blood test
    * ALP isoenzyme test
    * Bone scan
    * Paget disease of the bone

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Paget's Disease of Bone is the
National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 2 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 27 March 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

