Link: https://medlineplus.gov/dislocations.html    
                                Description: Dislocations are joint injuries that force bones out of position. A dislocation is a medical emergency. Learn about treatment and rehabilitation.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Dislocations

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/dislocations.html

#  Dislocations

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Dislocations are joint injuries that force the ends of your bones out of
position. The cause is often a fall or a blow, sometimes from playing a
contact sport. You can dislocate your ankles, knees, shoulders, hips, elbows
and jaw. You can also dislocate your finger and toe joints. Dislocated joints
often are swollen, very painful and visibly out of place. You may not be able
to move it.

A dislocated joint is an emergency. If you have one, seek medical attention.
Treatment depends on which joint you dislocate and the severity of the injury.
It might include manipulations to reposition your bones, medicine, a splint or
sling, and rehabilitation. When properly repositioned, a joint will usually
function and move normally again in a few weeks. Once you dislocate a shoulder
or kneecap, you are more likely to dislocate it again. Wearing protective gear
during sports may help prevent dislocations.

## Start Here

    * Dislocation (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Bone X-Ray (Radiography) ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Dislocation: First Aid (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Shoulder Instability (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Jaw Dislocation (Merck & Co., Inc.) Also in Spanish

## Images

    * Creating a sling - slideshow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Dislocations ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Global Perspectives on Management of Shoulder Instability: Decision Making and Treatment.
    * Article: Does the ZipTightTM effective to maintain reduction after the treatment of...
    * Article: Salter-Harris type II fractures of the distal tibia: Residual postreduction displacement...
    * Dislocations -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Children

    * Developmental Dislocation (Dysplasia) of the Hip (DDH) (American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons)
    * Dislocations (Nemours Foundation)
    * Nursemaid's Elbow (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)

## Patient Handouts

    * Dislocated shoulder - aftercare (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Dislocation (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Kneecap dislocation (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Kneecap dislocation - aftercare (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Nursemaid's elbow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Dislocations](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dislocations.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Dislocated shoulder - aftercare
    * Dislocation
    * How to make a sling
    * Jaw - broken or dislocated
    * Kneecap dislocation
    * Kneecap dislocation - aftercare
    * Nursemaid's elbow

## Related Health Topics

    * Dislocated Shoulder
    * Sports Injuries
    * Sprains and Strains

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Dislocations is the National
Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Dislocations_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 7 February 2019 Topic last reviewed: 11 March 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

