Link: https://medlineplus.gov/blood.html    
                                Description: Blood has many functions in your body. Blood tests help doctors check for certain diseases and conditions. Learn about blood types and blood tests.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Blood

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/blood.html

#  Blood

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here

### Learn More

  * Related Issues
  * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

  * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Reference Desk
  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Children
  * Teenagers

## Summary

Your blood is made up of liquid and solids. The liquid part, called plasma, is
made of water, salts, and protein. Over half of your blood is plasma. The
solid part of your blood contains red blood cells, white blood cells, and
platelets.

Red blood cells (RBC) deliver oxygen from your lungs to your tissues and
organs. White blood cells (WBC) fight infection and are part of your immune
system. Platelets help blood to clot when you have a cut or wound. Bone
marrow, the spongy material inside your bones, makes new blood cells. Blood
cells constantly die and your body makes new ones. Red blood cells live about
120 days, and platelets live about 6 days. Some white blood cells live less
than a day, but others live much longer.

There are four blood types: A, B, AB, or O. Also, blood is either Rh-positive
or Rh-negative. So if you have type A blood, it's either A positive or A
negative. Which type you are is important if you need a blood transfusion. And
your Rh factor could be important if you become pregnant - an incompatibility
between your type and the baby's could create problems.

Blood tests such as blood count tests help doctors check for certain diseases
and conditions. They also help check the function of your organs and show how
well treatments are working. Problems with your blood may include bleeding
disorders, excessive clotting and platelet disorders. If you lose too much
blood, you may need a transfusion.

NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Start Here

  * Blood (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
  * Blood Basics (American Society of Hematology)
  * Blood Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)
  * What Is Blood? (America's Blood Centers)

## Related Issues

  * Blood and Diversity (American Red Cross)
  * Blood Types (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)
  * Cord Blood Testing and Banking ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

  * Blood Types (American Red Cross)

## Videos and Tutorials

  * Red blood cell production ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Blood Cells ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Hematological indices as indicators of silent inflammation in achalasia patients: A...
  * Article: Preoperative platelet-lymphocyte ratio is a superior prognostic biomarker to other systemic...
  * Article: Diagnostic value of hemoglobin and neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio in Behcet Disease.
  * Blood -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

  * Biology of Blood (Merck & Co., Inc.) Also in Spanish
  * Hematology Glossary (American Society of Hematology)

## Find an Expert

  * Find a Hematologist (American Society of Hematology)
  * National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

  * What's Blood? (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

  * Blood (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
  * Blood Types (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Arterial stick
  * Blood typing
  * Capillary sample
  * Cord blood testing
  * Red blood cell production
  * Venipuncture

## Related Health Topics

  * Bleeding
  * Bleeding Disorders
  * Blood Clots
  * Blood Count Tests
  * Blood Disorders
  * Blood Transfusion and Donation
  * Platelet Disorders
  * Rh Incompatibility

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Blood is the National Heart,
Lung, and Blood Institute

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 6 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 11 December 2015

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

