Link: https://medlineplus.gov/pancreatitis.html    
                                Description: Pancreatitis is inflammation of the pancreas. Pancreatitis can be acute or chronic. Learn about pancreatitis symptoms and treatment.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Pancreatitis

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/pancreatitis.html

#  Pancreatitis

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Women
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

The pancreas is a large gland behind the stomach and close to the first part
of the small intestine. It secretes digestive juices into the small intestine
through a tube called the pancreatic duct. The pancreas also releases the
hormones insulin and glucagon into the bloodstream.

Pancreatitis is inflammation of the pancreas. It happens when digestive
enzymes start digesting the pancreas itself. Pancreatitis can be acute or
chronic. Either form is serious and can lead to complications.

Acute pancreatitis occurs suddenly and usually goes away in a few days with
treatment. It is often caused by gallstones. Common symptoms are severe pain
in the upper abdomen, nausea, and vomiting. Treatment is usually a few days in
the hospital for intravenous (IV) fluids, antibiotics, and medicines to
relieve pain.

Chronic pancreatitis does not heal or improve. It gets worse over time and
leads to permanent damage. The most common cause is heavy alcohol use. Other
causes include cystic fibrosis and other inherited disorders, high levels of
calcium or fats in the blood, some medicines, and autoimmune conditions.
Symptoms include nausea, vomiting, weight loss, and oily stools. Treatment may
also be a few days in the hospital for intravenous (IV) fluids, medicines to
relieve pain, and nutritional support. After that, you may need to start
taking enzymes and eat a special diet. It is also important to not smoke or
drink alcohol.

NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Start Here

    * Pancreatitis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Amylase Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Chymotrypsin Test (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
    * ERCP (Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangiopancreatography) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
    * Fecal Fat: The Test (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
    * Lipase Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Stool Elastase ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Trypsinogen Test (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)

## Living With

    * Nutrition Advice and Recipes (National Pancreas Foundation)

## Related Issues

    * Biliary Tract Disorders, Gallbladder Disorders, and Gallstone Pancreatitis (American College of Gastroenterology) Also in Spanish

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: hereditary pancreatitis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Hereditary Pancreatitis (National Pancreas Foundation) \- PDF

## Images

    * Pancreatitis - slideshow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Pancreatitis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Pancreatitis, Acute Necrotizing ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Pancreatitis, Chronic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Efficacy and safety of acupuncture on relieving abdominal pain and distension...
    * Article: Prolonged hyperamylasemia in patients with acute pancreatitis is associated with recurrence...
    * Article: Clinical analysis of patients with acute pancreatitis complicated with hemorrhagic fever...
    * Pancreatitis -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Power of Your Pancreas: Keep Your Digestive Juices Flowing ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish

## Find an Expert

    * ASGE: Find a Doctor (American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy)
    * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * Acute Pancreatitis in Children (National Pancreas Foundation)
    * Chronic Pancreatitis in Children (National Pancreas Foundation)
    * Pancreatitis (North American Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition) \- PDF

## Women

    * Acute Pancreatitis and Pregnancy (National Pancreas Foundation)

## Patient Handouts

    * Acute pancreatitis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Amylase - blood (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Chronic pancreatitis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * ERCP (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Lipase test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Pancreatitis - children (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Pancreatitis - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Pancreatitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pancreatitis.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Abdominal CT scan
    * Abdominal MRI
    * Abdominal tap
    * Abdominal ultrasound
    * Acute pancreatitis
    * Amylase - blood
    * Amylase - urine
    * Chronic pancreatitis
    * ERCP
    * Lipase test
    * Pancreatitis - children
    * Pancreatitis - discharge
    * Percutaneous transhepatic cholangiogram
    * Trypsin and chymotrypsin in stool

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

    * Pancreatic Diseases

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Pancreatitis is the National
Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 7 May 2019 Topic last reviewed: 17 March 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

