Link: https://medlineplus.gov/porphyria.html    
                                Description: Porphyrias are a group of genetic disorders caused by problems with how your body makes a substance called heme. Read more about types and symptoms.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Porphyria

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/porphyria.html

#  Porphyria

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Porphyrias are a group of genetic disorders caused by problems with how your
body makes a substance called heme. Heme is found throughout the body,
especially in your blood and bone marrow, where it carries oxygen.

There are two main types of porphyrias. One affects the skin and the other
affects the nervous system. People with the skin type develop blisters,
itching, and swelling of their skin when it is exposed to sunlight. The
nervous system type is called acute porphyria. Symptoms include pain in the
chest, abdomen, limbs, or back; muscle numbness, tingling, paralysis, or
cramping; vomiting; constipation; and personality changes or mental disorders.
These symptoms come and go.

Certain triggers can cause an attack, including some medicines, smoking,
drinking alcohol, infections, stress, and sun exposure. Attacks develop over
hours or days. They can last for days or weeks.

Porphyria can be hard to diagnose. It requires blood, urine, and stool tests.
Each type of porphyria is treated differently. Treatment may involve avoiding
triggers, receiving heme through a vein, taking medicines to relieve symptoms,
or having blood drawn to reduce iron in the body. People who have severe
attacks may need to be hospitalized.

NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Start Here

    * Porphyria (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Porphyria ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Porphyrin Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Porphyrins and Porphyria Diagnosis (American Porphyria Foundation)

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Porphyria Treatment Options (American Porphyria Foundation)

## Living With

    * Diet and Nutrition in Porphyria (American Porphyria Foundation)
    * Weight Loss and Acute Porphyria (American Porphyria Foundation)

## Related Issues

    * Glucose Effect in Acute Porphyrias (American Porphyria Foundation)
    * Porphyria Cutanea Tarda and Agent Orange (Department of Veterans Affairs)

## Specifics

    * Acute Intermittent Porphyria (AIP) (American Porphyria Foundation)
    * Congenital Erythropoietic Porphyria (CEP) (American Porphyria Foundation)
    * Erythropoietic Protoporphyria (EPP) and X-Linked Protoporphyria (XLP) (American Porphyria Foundation)
    * Porphyria Cutanea Tarda (PCT) (American Porphyria Foundation)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: porphyria ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Learning about Porphyria ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Human Genome Research Institute)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Porphyrias ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: A case of porphyria cutanea tarda in the setting of hepatitis...
    * Article: A Diagnostic Conundrum: Acute Intermittent Porphyria Coexisting with Lumbar Prolapsed Intervertebral...
    * Article: Patients with porphyria bask in sunlight of FDA approval.
    * Porphyria -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * American Porphyria Foundation
    * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Patient Handouts

    * Delta-ALA urine test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * PBG urine test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Porphyria (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Porphyrins - blood test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Porphyrins - urine (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Porphyria](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Porphyria.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Delta-ALA urine test
    * PBG urine test
    * Porphyria
    * Porphyrins - blood test
    * Porphyrins - urine
    * TBG - blood test

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Porphyria is the National
Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 4 February 2020 Topic last reviewed: 30 March 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

