Link: https://medlineplus.gov/dualdiagnosis.html    
                                Description: Many people with a mental illness also have problems with substance abuse. This is called dual diagnosis, or co-occuring disorders. Learn more.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Dual Diagnosis

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/dualdiagnosis.html

#  Dual Diagnosis

## Summary

### What is dual diagnosis?

A person with dual diagnosis has both a mental disorder and an alcohol or drug
problem. These conditions occur together frequently. About half of people who
have a mental disorder will also have a substance use disorder at some point
in their lives and vice versa. The interactions of the two conditions can
worsen both.

### Why do substance use disorders and mental disorders occur together?

Although these problems often occur together, this does not mean that one
caused the other, even if one appeared first. In fact, it can be hard to
figure out which came first. Researchers think that there are three
possibilities as to why they occur together:

    * **Common risk factors may contribute to both mental disorders and substance use disorders.** These factors include genetics, stress, and trauma.
    * **Mental disorders can contribute to drug use and substance use disorders.** For example, people with mental disorders may use drugs or alcohol to try to feel better temporarily. This is known as self-medication. Also, mental disorders may change the brain to make it more likely you will become addicted.
    * **Substance use and addiction can contribute to the development of a mental disorder.** Substance use may change the brain in ways that make you more likely to develop a mental disorder.

### What are the treatments for dual diagnosis?

Someone with a dual diagnosis must treat both conditions. For the treatment to
be effective, you need to stop using alcohol or drugs. Treatments may include
behavioral therapies and medicines. Also, support groups can give you
emotional and social support. They are also a place where people can share
tips about how to deal with day-to-day challenges.

NIH: National Institute on Drug Abuse

## Learn More

    * Alcohol Abuse and Other Psychiatric Disorders ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)
    * Behavioral Health Treatment Services Locator (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration)
    * Bipolar Disorder and Alcoholism: Are They Related? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Co-Occurring: Mental Health and Substance Abuse (Mental Health America)
    * Comorbidity ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse)
    * Dual Diagnosis: Substance Abuse and Mental Illness (NAMI) Also in Spanish
    * Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration
    * Substance Use and Mental Health ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Mental Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Biological Citizenship - A 53-Year-Old Man with Schizoaffective Disorder and PTSD...
    * Article: Implementing integrated services in routine behavioral health care: primary outcomes from...
    * Article: Case 26-2019: A 27-Year-Old Woman with Opioid Use Disorder and Suicidal...
    * Dual Diagnosis -- see more articles

## Topic Image

![Dual Diagnosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DualDiagnosis.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Dual Diagnosis is the National
Institute on Drug Abuse

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Dual Diagnosis_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 3 April 2020 Topic last reviewed: 25 March 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

