Link: https://medlineplus.gov/restlesslegs.html    
                                Description: That creeping, crawling, tingling, or burning feeling in your legs when lying down or sitting may be restless leg syndrome (RLS). Learn what can help.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Restless Legs

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/restlesslegs.html

#  Restless Legs

Also called: RLS, Willis-Ekbom Disease

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Symptoms
    * Diagnosis and Tests

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Restless legs syndrome (RLS) causes a powerful urge to move your legs. Your
legs become uncomfortable when you are lying down or sitting. Some people
describe it as a creeping, crawling, tingling, or burning sensation. Moving
makes your legs feel better, but not for long. RLS can make it hard to fall
asleep and stay asleep.

In most cases, there is no known cause for RLS. In other cases, RLS is caused
by a disease or condition, such as anemia or pregnancy. Some medicines can
also cause temporary RLS. Caffeine, tobacco, and alcohol may make symptoms
worse.

Lifestyle changes, such as regular sleep habits, relaxation techniques, and
moderate exercise during the day can help. If those don't work, medicines may
reduce the symptoms of RLS.

Most people with RLS also have a condition called periodic limb movement
disorder (PLMD). PLMD is a condition in which a person's legs twitch or jerk
uncontrollably, usually during sleep. PLMD and RLS can also affect the arms.

NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Start Here

    * Can't Curb the Urge to Move? Living with Restless Legs Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * Restless Legs Syndrome (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Restless Legs Syndrome (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Restless Legs Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) Also in Spanish

## Symptoms

    * Restless Legs Syndrome -- Causes and Symptoms (American Academy of Sleep Medicine)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Restless Legs Syndrome -- Self-Tests and Diagnosis (American Academy of Sleep Medicine)
    * Sleep Study (Polysomnogram) (Nemours Foundation)

## Related Issues

    * Periodic Limb Movement Disorder (PLMD) and Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS) (Merck & Co., Inc.) Also in Spanish

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: restless legs syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Restless Legs Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Intractable Restless Legs Syndrome - Look for Other Causes.
    * Article: Acupuncture for restless legs syndrome: A systematic review and meta-analysis protocol.
    * Article: Acupuncture and Moxibustion for restless legs syndrome: A systematic review and...
    * Restless Legs -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Find a Sleep Center Near You (American Academy of Sleep Medicine)
    * National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
    * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Restless legs syndrome (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Restless Legs](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RestlessLeg.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Restless legs syndrome

## Related Health Topics

    * Leg Injuries and Disorders
    * Movement Disorders
    * Sleep Disorders

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Restless Legs is the National
Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 7 February 2019 Topic last reviewed: 11 October 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

