Link: https://medlineplus.gov/refluxinchildren.html    
                                Description: Kids can get reflux and GERD, which happen when stomach contents leak back up. Learn the difference between the two, and the symptoms and treatments.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Reflux in Children

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/refluxinchildren.html

#  Reflux in Children

Also called: GER in Children, GERD in Children

## Summary

### What are reflux (GER) and GERD?

The esophagus is the tube that carries food from your mouth to your stomach.
If your child has reflux, his or her stomach contents come back up into the
esophagus. Another name for reflux is gastroesophageal reflux (GER).

GERD stands for gastroesophageal reflux disease. It is a more serious and
long-lasting type of reflux. If your child has reflux more than twice a week
for a few weeks, it could be GERD.

### What causes reflux and GERD in children?

There is a muscle (the lower esophageal sphincter) that acts as a valve
between the esophagus and stomach. When your child swallows, this muscle
relaxes to let food pass from the esophagus to the stomach. This muscle
normally stays closed, so the stomach contents don't flow back into the
esophagus.

In children who have reflux and GERD, this muscle becomes weak or relaxes when
it shouldn't, and the stomach contents flow back into the esophagus. This can
happen because of

    * A hiatal hernia, a condition in which the upper part of your stomach pushes upward into your chest through an opening in your diaphragm
    * Increased pressure on the abdomen from being overweight or having obesity
    * Medicines, such as certain asthma medicines, antihistamines (which treat allergies), pain relievers, sedatives (which help put people to sleep), and antidepressants
    * Smoking or exposure to secondhand smoke
    * A previous surgery on the esophagus or upper abdomen
    * A severe developmental delay
    * Certain neurological conditions, such as cerebral palsy

### How common are reflux and GERD in children?

Many children have occasional reflux. GERD is not as common; up to 25 percent
of children have symptoms of GERD.

### What are the symptoms of reflux and GERD in children?

Your child might not even notice reflux. But some children taste food or
stomach acid at the back of the mouth.

In children, GERD can cause

    * Heartburn, a painful, burning feeling in the middle of the chest. It is more common in older children (12 years and up).
    * Bad breath
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Problems swallowing or painful swallowing
    * Breathing problems
    * The wearing away of teeth

### How do doctors diagnose reflux and GERD in children?

In most cases, a doctor diagnoses reflux by reviewing your child's symptoms
and medical history. If the symptoms do not get better with lifestyle changes
and anti-reflux medicines, your child may need testing to check for GERD or
other problems.

Several tests can help a doctor diagnose GERD. Sometimes doctors order more
than one test to get a diagnosis. Commonly-used tests include

    * **Upper GI series** , which looks at the shape of your child's upper GI (gastrointestinal) tract. You child will drink a contrast liquid called barium. For young children, the barium is mixed in with a bottle or other food. The health care professional will take several x-rays of your child to track the barium as it goes through the esophagus and stomach.
    * **Esophageal pH and impedance monitoring** , which measures the amount of acid or liquid in your child's esophagus. A doctor or nurse places a thin flexible tube through your child's nose into the stomach. The end of the tube in the esophagus measures when and how much acid comes back up into the esophagus. The other end of the tube attaches to a monitor that records the measurements. Your child will wear the tube for 24 hours. He or she may need to stay in the hospital during the test.
    * **Upper gastrointestinal (GI) endoscopy and biopsy** , which uses an endoscope, a long, flexible tube with a light and camera at the end of it. The doctor runs the endoscope down your child's esophagus, stomach, and first part of the small intestine. While looking at the pictures from the endoscope, the doctor may also take tissue samples (biopsy).

### What lifestyle changes can help treat my child's reflux or GERD?

Sometimes reflux and GERD in children can be treated with lifestyle changes:

    * Losing weight, if needed
    * Eating smaller meals
    * Avoiding high-fat foods
    * Wearing loose-fitting clothing around the abdomen
    * Staying upright for 3 hours after meals and not reclining and slouching when sitting
    * Sleeping at a slight angle. Raise the head of your child's bed 6 to 8 inches by safely putting blocks under the bedposts.

### What treatments might the doctor give for my child's GERD?

If changes at home do not help enough, the doctor may recommend medicines to
treat GERD. The medicines work by lowering the amount of acid in your child's
stomach.

Some medicines for GERD in children are over-the-counter, and some are
prescription medicines. They include

    * Over-the-counter antacids
    * H2 blockers, which decrease acid production
    * Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), which lower the amount of acid the stomach makes
    * Prokinetics, which help the stomach empty faster

If these don't help and your child still has severe symptoms, then surgery
might be an option. A pediatric gastroenterologist, a doctor who treats
children who have digestive diseases, would do the surgery.

NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Learn More

    * Acid Reflux (GER & GERD) in Children & Teens ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
    * Gastroesophageal Reflux (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) (For Teens) (Nemours Foundation)
    * Reflux and GERD (in Children) (North American Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition)

## Related Issues

    * GERD and LPR (American Academy of Otolaryngology--Head and Neck Surgery)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: GERD in Children ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Association between soft drink consumption, gastric reflux, dental erosion, and obesity...
    * Article: Role of esophageal manometry in children with refractory gastroesophageal reflux symptoms.
    * Article: Increased number of regulatory T cells in esophageal tissue of patients...
    * Reflux in Children -- see more articles

## Topic Image

![Reflux in Children](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RefluxinChildren.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Reflux in Children is the
National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 7 August 2019 Topic last reviewed: 16 May 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

