Link: https://medlineplus.gov/endometriosis.html    
                                Description: In endometriosis, the lining of the uterus grows outside the uterus. It can cause pain, infertility, and very heavy periods. Learn about treatments.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Endometriosis

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/endometriosis.html

#  Endometriosis

Also called: Endo

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Symptoms
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Teenagers
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is endometriosis?

The uterus, or womb, is the place where a baby grows when a woman is pregnant.
It is lined with tissue (endometrium). Endometriosis is a disease in which
tissue that is similar to the lining of the uterus grows in other places in
your body. These patches of tissue are called "implants," "nodules," or
"lesions." They are most often found

    * On or under the ovaries
    * On the fallopian tubes, which carry egg cells from the ovaries to the uterus
    * Behind the uterus
    * On the tissues that hold the uterus in place
    * On the bowels or bladder

In rare cases, the tissue may grow on your lungs or in other parts of your
body.

### What causes endometriosis?

The cause of endometriosis is unknown.

### Who is at risk for endometriosis?

Endometriosis is most commonly diagnosed in women in their 30s and 40s. But it
can affect any female who menstruates. Certain factors can raise or lower your
risk of getting it.

You are at higher risk if

    * You have a mother, sister, or daughter with endometriosis
    * Your period started before age 11
    * Your monthly cycles are short (less than 27 days)
    * Your menstrual cycles are heavy and last more than 7 days

You have a lower risk if

    * You have been pregnant before
    * Your periods started late in adolescence
    * You regularly exercise more than 4 hours a week
    * You have a low amount of body fat

### What are the symptoms of endometriosis?

The main symptoms of endometriosis are

    * Pelvic pain, which affects about 75 percent of women with endometriosis. It often happens during your period.
    * Infertility, which affects up to half of all women with endometriosis

Other possible symptoms include

    * Painful menstrual cramps, which may get worse over time
    * Pain during or after sex
    * Pain in the intestine or lower abdomen
    * Pain with bowel movements or urination, usually during your period
    * Heavy periods
    * Spotting or bleeding between periods
    * Digestive or gastrointestinal symptoms
    * Fatigue or lack of energy

### How is endometriosis diagnosed?

Surgery is the only way to know for sure that you have endometriosis. First,
however, your health care provider will ask about your symptoms and medical
history. You will have a pelvic exam and may have some imaging tests.

The surgery to diagnose endometriosis is a laparoscopy. This is a type of
surgery that uses a laparoscope, a thin tube with a camera and light. The
surgeon inserts the laparoscope through a small cut in the skin. Your provider
can make a diagnosis based on how the patches of endometriosis look. He or she
may also do a biopsy to get a tissue sample.

### What are the treatments for endometriosis?

There is no cure for endometriosis, but there are treatments for the symptoms.
Your health care provider will work with you to decide which treatments would
be best for you.

**Treatments for endometriosis pain** include

    * **Pain relievers** , including nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) such as ibuprofen and a prescription medicine specifically for endometriosis. Providers may sometimes prescribe opioids for severe pain.
    * **Hormone therapy** , including birth control pills, progestin therapy, and gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonists. GnRH agonists cause a temporary menopause, but also help control the growth of endometriosis.
    * **Surgical treatments** for severe pain, including procedures to remove the endometriosis patches or cut some nerves in the pelvis. The surgery may be a laparoscopy or major surgery. The pain may come back within a few years after surgery. If the pain is very severe, a hysterectomy may be an option. This is a surgery to remove the uterus. Sometimes providers also remove the ovaries and fallopian tubes as part of a hysterectomy.

**Treatments for infertility caused by endometriosis** include

    * **Laparoscopy** to remove the endometriosis patches
    * **In vitro fertilization**

NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development

## Start Here

    * Endometriosis (American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists) \- PDF
    * Endometriosis (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Endometriosis (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health) Also in Spanish
    * What Is Endometriosis? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Symptoms

    * What Are the Symptoms of Endometriosis? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Abdominal exploration - slideshow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * How Do Health Care Providers Diagnose Endometriosis? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
    * Laparoscopy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Pelvic laparoscopy - slideshow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Endometriosis and Infertility: Can Surgery Help? (American Society for Reproductive Medicine) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * What Are the Treatments for Endometriosis? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Endometriosis: Does It Cause Infertility? (American Society for Reproductive Medicine) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Period Problems: Fibroids, Endometriosis, and Other Issues ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Adenomyosis (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Videos and Tutorials

    * Endometriosis ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (American Society for Reproductive Medicine)

## Statistics and Research

    * How Many People Are Affected by or at Risk for Endometriosis? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
    * Researchers Realize Major Breakthrough in Understanding Endometriosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Adenomyosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Endometriosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Endometriosis.
    * Article: Imaging Spectrum of Endometriosis (Endometriomas to Deep Infiltrative Endometriosis).
    * Article: Diagnosis of endometriosis 3rd part - Ultrasound diagnosis of deep endometriosis.
    * Endometriosis -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Female Reproductive System ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)

## Find an Expert

    * Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
    * womenshealth.gov (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

    * Endometriosis (For Teens) (Nemours Foundation)
    * Endometriosis: A Guide for Teens (Children's Hospital Boston)

## Patient Handouts

    * Endometriosis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Living with endometriosis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Endometriosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Endometriosis2.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Abdominal exploration
    * Abdominal exploration - slideshow
    * Diagnostic laparoscopy
    * Endometriosis
    * Living with endometriosis
    * Pelvic laparoscopy
    * Pelvic laparoscopy - slideshow
    * Pelvis MRI scan

## Related Health Topics

    * Female Infertility
    * Menstruation
    * Uterine Diseases

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Endometriosis is the Eunice
Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development

## NIH MedlinePlus Magazine

    * Improving Endometriosis Diagnosis Through Research and Awareness
    * Inheriting Endometriosis

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 4 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 11 May 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

