Link: https://medlineplus.gov/fibromyalgia.html    
                                Description: Fibromyalgia (FMS) is a chronic or long-term condition characterized by pain and tenderness all over the body. Learn about symptoms and treatment.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Fibromyalgia

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/fibromyalgia.html

#  Fibromyalgia

Also called: Fibro, FMS

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Symptoms
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is fibromyalgia?

Fibromyalgia is chronic condition that causes pain all over the body, fatigue,
and other symptoms. People with fibromyalgia may be more sensitive to pain
than people who don't have it. This is called abnormal pain perception
processing.

### What causes fibromyalgia?

The exact cause of fibromyalgia is unknown. Researchers think that certain
things might contribute to its cause:

    * Stressful or traumatic events, such as car accidents
    * Repetitive injuries
    * Illnesses such as viral infections

Sometimes, fibromyalgia can develop on its own. It can run in families, so
genes may play a role in the cause.

### Who is at risk for fibromyalgia?

Anyone can get fibromyalgia, but it is more common in

    * Women; they are twice as likely to have fibromyalgia
    * Middle-aged people
    * People with certain diseases, such as lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, or ankylosing spondylitis
    * People who have a family member with fibromyalgia

### What are the symptoms of fibromyalgia?

Common symptoms of fibromyalgia include

    * Pain and stiffness all over the body
    * Fatigue and tiredness
    * Problems with thinking, memory, and concentration (sometimes called "fibro fog")
    * Depression and anxiety
    * Headaches, including migraines
    * Irritable bowel syndrome
    * Numbness or tingling in the hands and feet
    * Pain in the face or jaw, including disorders of the jaw know as temporomandibular joint syndrome (TMJ)
    * Sleep problems

### How is fibromyalgia diagnosed?

Fibromyalgia can be hard to diagnose. It sometimes takes visits to several
different health care providers to get a diagnosis. One problem is that there
isn't a specific test for it. And the main symptoms, pain and fatigue, are
common in many other conditions. Health care providers have to rule out other
causes of the symptoms before making a diagnosis of fibromyalgia. This is
called making a differential diagnosis.

To make a diagnosis, your health care provider

    * Will take your medical history and ask detailed questions about your symptoms
    * Will do a physical exam
    * May do x-rays and blood tests to rule out other conditions
    * Will consider the guidelines for diagnosing fibromyalgia, which include
      * A history of widespread pain lasting more than 3 months
      * Physical symptoms including fatigue, waking unrefreshed, and cognitive (memory or thought) problems
      * The number of areas throughout the body in which you had pain in the past week

### What are the treatments for fibromyalgia?

Not all health care providers are familiar with fibromyalgia and its
treatment. You should see a doctor or team of health care providers who
specialize in the treatment of fibromyalgia.

Fibromyalgia is treated with a combination of treatments, which may include
medicines, lifestyle changes, talk therapy, and complementary therapies:

    * **Medicines**
      * Over-the-counter pain relievers
      * Prescription medicines that were specifically approved to treat fibromyalgia
      * Prescription pain medicines
      * Certain antidepressants, which may help with pain or sleep problems
    * **Lifestyle changes**
      * Getting enough sleep
      * Getting regular physical activity. If you have not already been active, start slowly and gradually increase how much activity you get. You may want to see a physical therapist, who can help you create a plan that is right for you.
      * Learning how to manage stress
      * Eating a healthy diet
      * Learning to pace yourself. If you do too much, it can make your symptoms worse. So you need to learn to balance being active with your need for rest.
    * **Talk therapy** , such as cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), can help you learn strategies to deal with pain, stress, and negative thoughts. If you also have depression along with your fibromyalgia, talk therapy can help with that too.
    * **Complementary therapies** have helped some people with the symptoms of fibromyalgia. But researchers need to do more studies to show which ones are effective. You could consider trying them, but you should check with your health care provider first. These therapies include
      * Massage therapy
      * Movement therapies
      * Chiropractic therapy
      * Acupuncture

## Start Here

    * Fibromyalgia (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Fibromyalgia (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Fibromyalgia (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health) Also in Spanish
    * Focusing on Fibromyalgia : A Puzzling and Painful Condition ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
    * What Is Fibromyalgia? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases) Also in Spanish

## Symptoms

    * Fibromyalgia Symptoms or Not? Understand the Fibromyalgia Diagnosis Process (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * 6 Things to Know about Mind and Body Practices for Fibromyalgia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Fibromyalgia and Complementary Health Approaches ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Milnacipran (Savella) for Fibromyalgia: What Makes It Different? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Living With

    * Fibromyalgia Pain: Options for Coping (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Living with Fibromyalgia, Drugs Approved to Manage Pain (Food and Drug Administration)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: fibromyalgia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Statistics and Research

    * Mind and Body Practices for Fibromyalgia: What the Science Says ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Fibromyalgia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Effectiveness of a multicomponent treatment versus conventional treatment in patients with...
    * Article: Association of ferritin levels with depression, anxiety, sleep quality, and physical...
    * Article: Opioid prescription patterns among patients with fibromyalgia.
    * Fibromyalgia -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * American College of Rheumatology
    * Find a Rheumatologist (American College of Rheumatology)
    * National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Children

    * Fibromyalgia (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)

## Patient Handouts

    * Fibromyalgia (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Fibromyalgia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FibromyalgiaI.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Fibromyalgia

## Related Health Topics

    * Arthritis
    * Muscle Disorders
    * Pain

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Fibromyalgia is the National
Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases

## NIH MedlinePlus Magazine

    * 5 Ways to Manage Your Fibromyalgia
    * Fibromyalgia: What You Need to Know
    * Fighting Fibromyalgia with Complementary Health and NIH

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 1 April 2020 Topic last reviewed: 10 August 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

