Link: https://medlineplus.gov/adhesions.html    
                                Description: Abdominal surgery is the main cause of adhesions but not the only one. Learn about the signs, symptoms, and causes this type of scar tissue.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Adhesions

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/adhesions.html

#  Adhesions

Also called: Abdominal adhesions

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests

### Learn More

    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Women
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Adhesions are bands of scar-like tissue. Normally, internal tissues and organs
have slippery surfaces so they can shift easily as the body moves. Adhesions
cause tissues and organs to stick together. They might connect the loops of
the intestines to each other, to nearby organs, or to the wall of the abdomen.
They can pull sections of the intestines out of place. This may block food
from passing through the intestine.

Adhesions can occur anywhere in the body. But they often form after surgery on
the abdomen. Almost everyone who has surgery on the abdomen gets adhesions.
Some adhesions don't cause any problems. But when they partly or completely
block the intestines, they cause symptoms such as

    * Severe abdominal pain or cramping
    * Vomiting
    * Bloating
    * An inability to pass gas
    * Constipation

Adhesions can sometimes cause infertility in women by preventing fertilized
eggs from reaching the uterus.

No tests are available to detect adhesions. Doctors usually find them during
surgery to diagnose other problems.

Some adhesions go away by themselves. If they partly block your intestines, a
diet low in fiber can allow food to move easily through the affected area. If
you have a complete intestinal obstruction, it is life-threatening. You should
get immediate medical attention and may need surgery.

NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Start Here

    * Abdominal Adhesions ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Abdominal exploration - slideshow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Hysterosalpingography ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * Laparoscopic Surgery (American College of Gastroenterology)
    * Lower GI Series (Barium Enema) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Intestinal Ischemia (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Adhesions ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Tissue Adhesions ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Practical considerations in the use of a porcine model (Sus scrofa...
    * Article: Atraumatic bleeding of the subclavian artery 20 years after surgical treatment...
    * Article: Adhesion-related readmissions after open and laparoscopic surgery: a retrospective cohort study...
    * Adhesions -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * Labial Adhesions: A Guide for Parents (Children's Hospital Boston)

## Women

    * Endometriosis (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)

## Patient Handouts

    * Abdominal Adhesions ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) \- PDF
    * Adhesion (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Exam](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Adhesions.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Abdominal exploration
    * Abdominal exploration - slideshow
    * Adhesion
    * Intestinal ischemia and infarction
    * Intestinal obstruction
    * Intestinal obstruction repair - slideshow

## Related Health Topics

    * Intestinal Obstruction

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Adhesions is the National
Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 7 May 2019 Topic last reviewed: 30 August 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

