Link: https://medlineplus.gov/healthproblemsinpregnancy.html    
                                Description: Learn about illnesses and conditions that can make a pregnancy risky such as cancer and gestational diabetes. Get the facts on specific conditions.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Health Problems in Pregnancy

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/healthproblemsinpregnancy.html

#  Health Problems in Pregnancy

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Every pregnancy has some risk of problems. You may have problems because of a
health condition you had before you got pregnant. You could also develop a
condition during pregnancy. Other causes of problems during pregnancy can
include being pregnant with more than one baby, a health problem in a previous
pregnancy, drug use during pregnancy, or being over age 35. Any of these can
affect your health, the health of your baby, or both.

If you have a chronic condition, you should talk to your health care provider
about how to minimize your risk before you get pregnant. Once you are
pregnant, you may need a health care team to monitor your pregnancy. Some
common conditions that can complicate a pregnancy include

    * High blood pressure
    * Polycystic ovary syndrome
    * Kidney problems
    * Autoimmune disorders
    * Obesity
    * HIV/AIDS
    * Cancer
    * Infections

Other conditions that can make pregnancy risky can happen while you are
pregnant - for example, gestational diabetes and Rh incompatibility. Good
prenatal care can help detect and treat them.

Some discomforts, like nausea, back pain, and fatigue, are common during
pregnancy. Sometimes it is hard to know what is normal. Call your health care
provider if something is bothering or worrying you.

## Start Here

    * High-Risk Pregnancy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development)
    * Pregnancy Complications (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Pregnancy Complications (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health) Also in Spanish
    * What Are the Factors That Put a Pregnancy at Risk? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
    * What Health Problems Can Develop during Pregnancy? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Bleeding during Pregnancy (American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists) \- PDF
    * Estrogen Levels Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Prenatal Testing: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Progesterone Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Who Is at Increased Risk of Health Problems during Pregnancy? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Acute Pancreatitis and Pregnancy (National Pancreas Foundation)
    * Asthma, Allergies and Pregnancy (American Academy of Allergy, Asthma, and Immunology) Also in Spanish
    * Depression and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Epilepsy and Pregnancy (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Gaucher Disease in Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Headaches during Pregnancy: What's the Best Treatment? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Heart Conditions and Pregnancy: Know the Risks (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Hyperthermia and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Hypothyroidism and Pregnancy (Hormone Health Network)
    * Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Pregnancy and IC (Interstitial Cystitis Association)
    * Pregnancy and Irritable Bowel Syndrome (International Foundation for Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders)
    * Pregnancy and Reproductive Issues (National Multiple Sclerosis Society)
    * Pregnancy and Rheumatic Disease (American College of Rheumatology) Also in Spanish
    * Pregnancy and Thyroid Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
    * Pregnancy Complications: Liver Disorders (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Thinking about Pregnancy After Premature Birth (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation)
    * What You Should Know about Sickle Cell Disease and Pregnancy (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Will Stress during Pregnancy Affect My Baby? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Blood Clotting and Pregnancy ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (American Society of Hematology)
    * Hyperemesis Gravidarum (HG) (HER Foundation)
    * Intrauterine Growth Restriction (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Pregnancy After Age 35 (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation)
    * Pregnancy Complications: Anemia (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Pregnancy Complications: Cervical Insufficiency and Short Cervix (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Pregnancy Complications: Placental Abruption (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation)
    * Pregnancy Complications: Placental Accreta, Increta and Percreta (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Pregnancy Complications: Umbilical Cord Abnormalities (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Why Do Abdominal Muscles Sometimes Separate during Pregnancy? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Pregnancy Complications ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Pregnancy, High-Risk ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Measuring Pelvic Floor Disorder Symptoms Using Patient-Reported Instruments: Proceedings of the...
    * Article: Hereditary Cancer Syndromes and Risk Assessment: ACOG COMMITTEE OPINION, Number 793.
    * Article: Hereditary Cancer Syndromes and Risk Assessment: ACOG COMMITTEE OPINION SUMMARY, Number...
    * Health Problems in Pregnancy -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
    * March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation Also in Spanish
    * womenshealth.gov (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Bed rest during pregnancy (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Hydramnios (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Hyperemesis gravidarum (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Insufficient cervix (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Placenta abruptio (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Placenta abruptio (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Placenta previa (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Vaginal bleeding in early pregnancy (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Vaginal bleeding in late pregnancy (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Vaginal bleeding in pregnancy (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Health Problems in
Pregnancy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HealthConditionsinPregnancy.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Bed rest during pregnancy
    * Diastasis recti
    * Hydramnios
    * Hyperemesis gravidarum
    * Insufficient cervix
    * Intrauterine growth restriction
    * Peripartum cardiomyopathy
    * Placenta abruptio
    * Placenta abruptio
    * Placenta previa
    * Placental insufficiency
    * Polyhydramnios
    * Serum progesterone
    * Vaginal bleeding in early pregnancy
    * Vaginal bleeding in late pregnancy
    * Vaginal bleeding in pregnancy

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

    * Childbirth Problems
    * Diabetes and Pregnancy
    * Fetal Health and Development
    * High Blood Pressure in Pregnancy
    * HIV/AIDS and Pregnancy
    * Infections and Pregnancy
    * Pregnancy
    * Pregnancy and Drug Use
    * Pregnancy and Medicines
    * Premature Babies
    * Prenatal Care
    * Rh Incompatibility
    * Tumors and Pregnancy
    * Twins, Triplets, Multiple Births

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Health Problems in Pregnancy is
the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human
Development

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Health Problems in
Pregnancy_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 10 June 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

