Link: https://medlineplus.gov/infantandnewbornnutrition.html    
                                Description: From breastfeeding to solid foods, infant and newborn nutrition provides babies with nutrients needed to grow. Read about how to identify allergies.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Infant and Newborn Nutrition

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/infantandnewbornnutrition.html

#  Infant and Newborn Nutrition

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Food provides the energy and nutrients that babies need to be healthy. For a
baby, breast milk is best. It has all the necessary vitamins and minerals.
Infant formulas are available for babies whose mothers are not able to or
decide not to breastfeed.

Infants are usually ready to eat solid foods at about 6 months of age. Check
with your health care provider for the best time for your baby to start. If
you introduce one new food at a time, you will be able to identify any foods
that cause allergies in your baby. Allergic reactions include a a rash,
diarrhea, or vomiting.

Many parents are concerned about peanut allergies. When babies can eat foods
that contain peanuts depends on their risk of food allergies:

    * Most babies can have peanut products when they are about 6 months of age
    * Babies who have mild to moderate eczema have a higher risk of food allergies. They usually can eat peanut products at about 6 months of age. If you have concerns about this, check with your baby's health care provider.
    * Babies who have severe eczema or egg allergies are at high risk for peanut allergies. If your baby is at high risk, check with your baby's health care provider. Your baby may need allergy testing. Your baby's provider can also recommend when and how to give your baby peanut products.

There are some foods that you should avoid feeding your baby:

    * Do not give your baby honey before 1 year of age. Honey may contain bacteria that can cause botulism in babies.
    * Avoid cow's milk before age 1, since it does not have all of the nutrients that babies need and babies cannot digest it
    * Unpasteurized drinks or foods (such as juices, milks, yogurt, or cheeses) may put your child at risk for an E. coli infection. E coli is a harmful bacteria that can cause severe diarrhea.
    * Certain foods that can cause choking, such as hard candy, popcorn, whole nuts, and grapes (unless they are cut into small pieces). Don't give your child these foods before age 3.
    * Because it contains a lot of sugar, babies should not drink juice before age 1

## Start Here

    * Breastfeeding vs. Formula Feeding (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Feeding Your 1- to 3-Month-Old (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Feeding Your 4- to 7-Month-Old (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Feeding Your 8- to 12-Month-Old (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Feeding Your Newborn (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Once Baby Arrives (Food and Drug Administration) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Infant Botulism (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)
    * Milk Allergy in Infants (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Stopping the Bottle (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Colostrum: Your Baby's First Meal (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish
    * Feeding Vegetarian and Vegan Infants and Toddlers (Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics)
    * Finger Foods for Babies (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Formula Feeding FAQs: Starting Solids and Milk (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Infant Formula (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Infant Formula and Fluorosis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Organic Baby Food: Better for Baby? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Solid Foods: How to Get Your Baby Started (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Vegetarianism (Nemours Foundation)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Infant Food ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Infant Formula ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Infant Nutrition ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Infant Nutrition Disorders ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Research protocol local ingredients-based supplementary food as an alternative to corn-soya...
    * Article: Timing of Complementary Feeding Introduction and Adiposity Throughout Childhood.
    * Article: Study protocol to assess the impact of an integrated nutrition intervention...
    * Infant and Newborn Nutrition -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
    * Food and Nutrition Service Programs Contacts by State (Food and Nutrition Service)
    * KidsHealth (Nemours Foundation)

## Patient Handouts

    * Breastfeeding vs. Formula Feeding (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Cow's milk - infants (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Feeding patterns and diet -- babies and infants (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Feeding patterns and diet -- children 6 months to 2 years (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Infant botulism (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Neonatal weight gain and nutrition (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Infant and Newborn
Nutrition](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InfantandNewbornNutrition.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Breastfeeding vs. Formula Feeding
    * Cow's milk - infants
    * Feeding patterns and diet -- babies and infants
    * Feeding patterns and diet -- children 6 months to 2 years
    * How to Save Money on Infant Formula
    * Infant botulism
    * Infant Formula - Buying, Preparing, Storing, and Feeding
    * Infant formulas
    * Neonatal weight gain and nutrition

## Related Health Topics

    * Breastfeeding
    * Child Nutrition
    * Infant and Newborn Care
    * Toddler Nutrition

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Infant and Newborn Nutrition is
the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human
Development

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Infant and Newborn
Nutrition_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 8 May 2019 Topic last reviewed: 10 March 2015

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

