Link: https://medlineplus.gov/hearthealthtests.html    
                                Description: Heart health tests can help find heart diseases, as part of a screening, or when you have symptoms. Learn about imaging, stress, and other tests.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Heart Health Tests

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/hearthealthtests.html

#  Heart Health Tests

Also called: Cardiac Diagnostic Tests

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Heart diseases are the number one killer in the U.S. They are also a major
cause of disability. If you do have a heart disease, it is important to find
it early, when it is easier to treat. Blood tests and heart health tests can
help find heart diseases or identify problems that can lead to heart diseases.
There are several different types of heart health tests. Your doctor will
decide which test or tests you need, based on your symptoms (if any), risk
factors, and medical history.

### Cardiac Catheterization

Cardiac catheterization is a medical procedure used to diagnose and treat some
heart conditions. For the procedure, your doctor puts a catheter (a long,
thin, flexible tube) into a blood vessel in your arm, groin, or neck, and
threads it to your heart. The doctor can use the catheter to

    * Do a coronary angiography. This involves putting a special type of dye in the catheter, so the dye can flow through your bloodstream to your heart. Then your doctor takes x-rays of your heart. The dye allows your doctor to see your coronary arteries on the x-ray, and to check for coronary artery disease (plaque buildup in the arteries).
    * Take samples of blood and heart muscle
    * Do procedures such as minor heart surgery or angioplasty, if your doctor finds that you need it

### Cardiac CT Scan

A cardiac CT (computed tomography) scan is a painless imaging test that uses
x-rays to take detailed pictures of your heart and its blood vessels.
Computers can combine these pictures to create a three-dimensional (3D) model
of the whole heart. This test can help doctors detect or evaluate

    * Coronary artery disease
    * Calcium buildup in the coronary arteries
    * Problems with the aorta
    * Problems with heart function and valves
    * Pericardial diseases

Before you have the test, you get an injection of contrast dye. The dye
highlights your heart and blood vessels in the pictures. The CT scanner is a
large, tunnel-like machine. You lie still on a table which slides you into the
scanner, and the scanner takes the pictures for about 15 minutes.

### Cardiac MRI

Cardiac MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) is a painless imaging test that uses
radio waves, magnets, and a computer to create detailed pictures of your
heart. It can help your doctor figure out whether you have heart disease, and
if so, how severe it is. A cardiac MRI can also help your doctor decide the
best way to treat heart problems such as

    * Coronary artery disease
    * Heart valve problems
    * Pericarditis
    * Cardiac tumors
    * Damage from a heart attack

The MRI is a large, tunnel-like machine. You lie still on a table which slides
you into the MRI machine. The machine makes loud noises as it takes pictures
of your heart. It usually takes about 30-90 minutes. Sometimes before the
test, you might get an injection of contrast dye. The dye highlights your
heart and blood vessels in the pictures.

### Chest X-Ray

A chest x-ray creates pictures of the organs and structures inside your chest,
such as your heart, lungs, and blood vessels. It can reveal signs of heart
failure, as well as lung disorders and other causes of symptoms not related to
heart disease.

### Coronary Angiography

Coronary angiography (angiogram) is a procedure that uses contrast dye and
x-ray pictures to look at the insides of your arteries. It can show whether
plaque is blocking your arteries and how severe the blockage is. Doctors use
this procedure to diagnose heart diseases after chest pain, sudden cardiac
arrest, or abnormal results from other heart tests such as an EKG or a stress
test.

You usually have a cardiac catheterization to get the dye into your coronary
arteries. Then you have special x-rays while the dye is flowing through your
coronary arteries. The dye lets your doctor study the flow of blood through
your heart and blood vessels.

### Echocardiography

Echocardiography, or echo, is a painless test that uses sound waves to create
moving pictures of your heart. The pictures show the size and shape of your
heart. They also show how well your heart's chambers and valves are working.
Doctors use an echo to diagnose many different heart problems, and to check
how severe they are.

For the test, a technician applies gel to your chest. The gel helps sound
waves reach your heart. The technician moves a transducer (wand-like device)
around on your chest. The transducer connects to a computer. It transmits
ultrasound waves into your chest, and the waves bounce (echo) back. The
computer converts the echoes into pictures of your heart.

### Electrocardiogram (EKG), (ECG)

An electrocardiogram, also called an ECG or EKG, is a painless test that
detects and records your heart's electrical activity. It shows how fast your
heart is beating and whether its rhythm is steady or irregular.

An EKG may be part of a routine exam to screen for heart disease. Or you may
get it to detect and study heart problems such as heart attacks, arrhythmia,
and heart failure.

For the test, you lie still on a table and a nurse or technician attaches
electrodes (patches that have sensors) to the skin on your chest, arms, and
legs. Wires connect the electrodes to a machine that records your heart's
electrical activity.

### Stress Testing

Stress testing looks at how your heart works during physical stress. It can
help to diagnose coronary artery disease, and to check how severe it is. It
can also check for other problems, including heart valve disease and heart
failure.

For the test, you exercise (or are given medicine if you are unable to
exercise) to make your heart work hard and beat fast. While this is happening,
you get an EKG and blood pressure monitoring. Sometimes you may also have an
echocardiogram, or other imaging tests such as a nuclear scan. For the nuclear
scan, you get an injection of a tracer (a radioactive substance), which
travels to your heart. Special cameras detect the energy from the tracer to
make pictures of your heart. You have pictures taken after you exercise, and
then after you rest.

NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Start Here

    * Diagnostic Tests and Procedures (Texas Heart Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Heart-Health Screenings (American Heart Association)
    * Picturing the Heart ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering)

## Related Issues

    * EKGs and Exercise Stress Tests: When You Need Them for Heart Disease - and When You Don't (ABIM Foundation)
    * Heart Health Tests for Diabetes Patients (American Heart Association)
    * Radiation from Cardiac Imaging Tests (American Heart Association)

## Specifics

    * Cardiac Computed Tomography (Multidetector CT, or MDCT) (American Heart Association)
    * Cardiac CT Scan ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)
    * Cardiac MRI ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)
    * Catheter Angiography ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * Chest X-Ray ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Coronary Calcium Scan ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)
    * Coronary Computed Tomography Angiography (CTA) (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * CT Angiography (CTA) (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * Doppler Ultrasound ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Ejection Fraction: What Does It Measure? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Electrocardiogram ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * MR Angiography (MRA) (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
    * Nuclear Heart Scan ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)
    * Optical Coherence Tomography (Texas Heart Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT) (American Heart Association)
    * Stress Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * What Is Cardiac Catheterization? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)
    * What Is Echocardiography? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)
    * What Is Transesophageal Echocardiography? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)
    * What to Expect during Cardiac Catheterization (American Heart Association)

## Videos and Tutorials

    * Cardiovascular system ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Heart Imaging Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Stress Testing ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Beneficial effect of statin on preventing contrast-induced acute kidney injury in...
    * Article: Assessment of persistent fifth aortic arch by echocardiography and computed tomography...
    * Article: Equilibrium radionuclide angiography compared with tissue doppler imaging for detection of...
    * Heart Health Tests -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Heart Anatomy (Texas Heart Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Heart Information Center (Texas Heart Institute) Also in Spanish
    * How the Heart Works ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Find an Expert

    * American Heart Association
    * National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * Cardiac Catheterization (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * ECG Electrocardiogram (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)

## Teenagers

    * Cardiac Catheterization (For Teens) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Cardiac catheterization - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Echocardiogram -- children (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Exercise stress test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Heart Health Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartHealthTest.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Aortic angiography
    * Cardiac catheterization
    * Cardiac catheterization - discharge
    * Cardiac event monitors
    * Cardiovascular system
    * Coronary angiography
    * CT angiography - chest
    * Echocardiogram
    * Echocardiogram -- children
    * Electrocardiogram
    * Exercise stress test
    * Heart CT scan
    * Heart MRI
    * His bundle electrography
    * Holter monitor (24h)
    * Intravascular ultrasound
    * Left heart ventricular angiography
    * Nuclear ventriculography
    * Right heart ventriculography
    * Stress echocardiography

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

    * Cholesterol Levels: What You Need to Know
    * CT Scans
    * Diagnostic Imaging
    * How to Prevent Heart Disease
    * MRI Scans
    * Nuclear Scans
    * Ultrasound
    * X-Rays

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Heart Health Tests is the
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Heart Health
Tests_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 11 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 28 February 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

