Link: https://medlineplus.gov/crohnsdisease.html    
                                Description: Crohn&#39;s Disease can cause inflammation in any area from the mouth to the anus. Read about medicines, surgery or dietary management to treat symptoms.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Crohn's Disease

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/crohnsdisease.html

#  Crohn's Disease

Also called: Regional enteritis, Regional ileitis

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Women
    * Adults
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Crohn's disease causes inflammation of the digestive system. It is one of a
group of diseases called inflammatory bowel disease. Crohn's can affect any
area from the mouth to the anus. It often affects the lower part of the small
intestine called the ileum.

The cause of Crohn's disease is unknown. It may be due to an abnormal reaction
by the body's immune system. It also seems to run in some families. It most
commonly starts between the ages of 13 and 30.

The most common symptoms are pain in the abdomen and diarrhea. Other symptoms
include

    * Bleeding from the rectum
    * Weight loss
    * Fever

Your doctor will diagnose Crohn's disease with a physical exam, lab tests,
imaging tests, and a colonoscopy.

Crohn's can cause complications, such as intestinal blockages, ulcers in the
intestine, and problems getting enough nutrients. People with Crohn's can also
have joint pain and skin problems. Children with the disease may have growth
problems.

There is no cure for Crohn's. Treatment can help control symptoms, and may
include medicines, nutrition supplements, and/or surgery. Some people have
long periods of remission, when they are free of symptoms.

NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Start Here

    * Crohn's Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
    * The Facts about Inflammatory Bowel Diseases (Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America) \- PDF
    * What Is Crohn's Disease? (Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Bacteria Culture Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * C-Reactive Protein (CRP) Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Colonoscopy: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Diagnosing and Managing IBD (Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America)
    * Gastrointestinal (GI) Bleeding ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
    * Lower GI Series (Barium Enema) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
    * Upper Gastrointestinal (GI) Series ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
    * White Blood Cell (WBC) in Stool ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Colostomy - slideshow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * How Do Doctors Treat Crohn's Disease? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
    * IBD and Complementary Medicine (Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America)
    * Ostomy Surgery of the Bowel ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
    * Surgery for Crohn's Disease (Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America)
    * Treatment Options in IBD (Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America)
    * Understanding IBD Medications and Side Effects (Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America)

## Living With

    * Arthritis and Joint Pain in IBD (Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America) \- PDF
    * Bone Loss in IBD (Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America)
    * Crohn's Disease and Ulcerative Colitis: Emotional Factors (Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America)
    * Extraintestinal Complications: Kidney Disorders (Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America)
    * Eye Complications in IBD (Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America)
    * General Healthcare Maintenance of IBD (Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America)
    * Inflammatory Bowel Disease and Nutrition (North American Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition) \- PDF
    * Intestinal Complications of IBD (Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America)
    * Intimate Relationship of Sex and Inflammatory Bowel Disease (Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America)
    * Is Fatigue a Common Crohn's Disease Symptom? What Can Be Done about It? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Liver Disease and IBD (Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America)
    * Maintenance Therapy in IBD (Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America)
    * Skin Complications of IBD (Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America)

## Related Issues

    * Gut Troubles: Pain, Gassiness, Bloating, and More ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
    * Influenza and IBD (Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America)
    * Overview of Enteropathic Arthritis (Spondylitis Association of America)
    * Proctitis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
    * Short Bowel Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
    * Traveling with Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) (Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America)
    * What People with Inflammatory Bowel Disease Need to Know about Osteoporosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: Crohn disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Learning about Crohn's Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Human Genome Research Institute)

## Statistics and Research

    * Current Research Initiatives (Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America)
    * Inflammatory Bowel Disease Prevalence (IBD) in the United States (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * The Facts about Inflammatory Bowel Diseases (Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America) \- PDF

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Crohn Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Inflammatory Bowel Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Practical strategy for optimizing the timing of anti-tumor necrosis factor-Î± therapy...
    * Article: Can diffusion weighted imaging be used as an alternative to contrast-enhanced...
    * Article: Hospitalization of Patients with Crohn's Disease: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis.
    * Crohn's Disease -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * American Society of Colon and Rectal Surgeons
    * Find a Gastroenterologist (American College of Gastroenterology)
    * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * Crohn's Disease and Ulcerative Colitis: A Guide for Teachers and Other School Personnel (Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America)
    * Inflammatory Bowel Disease (For Children) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Nutrition Therapy and Crohn's Disease (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Treating Children and Adolescents (Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America)

## Teenagers

    * Inflammatory Bowel Disease (For Teens) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Navigating IBD as a Teen (Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America)

## Women

    * Inflammatory Bowel Disease (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health)
    * Pregnancy and IBD (Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America)

## Adults

    * Managing Inflammatory Bowel Diseases as a Young Adult (Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America)

## Patient Handouts

    * Colonoscopy (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Crohn disease (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Crohn disease - children - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Crohn disease - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Low-fiber diet (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Lower GI Series ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Topic Image

![Crohn's Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Crohn'sDisease.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Albumin - blood (serum) test
    * Barium enema
    * Blind loop syndrome
    * Bloody or tarry stools
    * Colonoscopy
    * Colostomy - slideshow
    * Crohn disease
    * Crohn disease - children - discharge
    * Crohn disease - discharge
    * D-xylose absorption
    * Enteroclysis
    * ESR
    * Fecal fat
    * Inflammatory bowel disease - slideshow
    * Low-fiber diet
    * Phosphorus blood test
    * Total colectomy or proctocolectomy - discharge
    * Total proctocolectomy with ileostomy
    * Toxic megacolon
    * Virtual colonoscopy

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

    * Colonic Diseases
    * Ulcerative Colitis

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Crohn's Disease is the National
Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Crohn 's Disease_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 27 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 8 June 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

