Link: https://medlineplus.gov/rehabilitation.html    
                                Description: Rehabilitation is the process that assists a person in recovering from a serious injury, illness or surgery to regain strength, or relearn skills.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Rehabilitation

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/rehabilitation.html

#  Rehabilitation

Also called: Rehab

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is rehabilitation?

Rehabilitation is care that can help you get back, keep, or improve abilities
that you need for daily life. These abilities may be physical, mental, and/or
cognitive (thinking and learning). You may have lost them because of a disease
or injury, or as a side effect from a medical treatment. Rehabilitation can
improve your daily life and functioning.

### Who needs rehabilitation?

Rehabilitation is for people who have lost abilities that they need for daily
life. Some of the most common causes include

    * Injuries and trauma, including burns, fractures (broken bones), traumatic brain injury, and spinal cord injuries
    * Stroke
    * Severe infections
    * Major surgery
    * Side effects from medical treatments, such as from cancer treatments
    * Certain birth defects and genetic disorders
    * Developmental disabilities
    * Chronic pain, including back and neck pain

### What are the goals of rehabilitation?

The overall goal of rehabilitation is to help you get your abilities back and
regain independence. But the specific goals are different for each person.
They depend on what caused the problem, whether the cause is ongoing or
temporary, which abilities you lost, and how severe the problem is. For
example,

    * A person who has had a stroke may need rehabilitation to be able to dress or bathe without help
    * An active person who has had a heart attack may go through cardiac rehabilitation to try to return to exercising
    * Someone with a lung disease may get pulmonary rehabilitation to be able to breathe better and improve their quality of life

### What happens in a rehabilitation program?

When you get rehabilitation, you often have a team of different health care
providers helping you. They will work with you to figure out your needs,
goals, and treatment plan. The types of treatments that may be in a treatment
plan include

    * Assistive devices, which are tools, equipment, and products that help people with disabilities move and function
    * Cognitive rehabilitation therapy to help you relearn or improve skills such as thinking, learning, memory, planning, and decision making
    * Mental health counseling
    * Music or art therapy to help you express your feelings, improve your thinking, and develop social connections
    * Nutritional counseling
    * Occupational therapy to help you with your daily activities
    * Physical therapy to help your strength, mobility, and fitness
    * Recreational therapy to improve your emotional well-being through arts and crafts, games, relaxation training, and animal-assisted therapy
    * Speech-language therapy to help with speaking, understanding, reading, writing and swallowing
    * Treatment for pain
    * Vocational rehabilitation to help you build skills for going to school or working at a job

Depending on your needs, you may have rehabilitation in the providers'
offices, a hospital, or an inpatient rehabilitation center. In some cases, a
provider may come to your home. If you get care in your home, you will need to
have family members or friends who can come and help with your rehabilitation.

## Start Here

    * Overview of Rehabilitation (Merck & Co., Inc.) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Exercise at Home (National Jewish Health)

## Specifics

    * About Occupational Therapy (American Occupational Therapy Association)
    * FAQ about Recreational Therapy (RT) (American Therapeutic Recreation Association)
    * Frequently Asked Questions about Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (American Academy of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation)
    * Questions for Your Prospective Massage Therapist (American Massage Therapy Association)
    * What Is Music Therapy? (American Music Therapy Association)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Occupational Therapy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Physical Therapy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Occupational Therapy Interventions for Productive Aging Among Community-Dwelling Older Adults.
    * Article: Clinical Utility of Multisensory Environments for People With Intellectual and Developmental...
    * Article: Evidence-Based Practice Implementation in Stroke Rehabilitation: A Scoping Review of Barriers...
    * Rehabilitation -- see more articles
    * Physical therapy -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Find a Massage Therapist (American Massage Therapy Association)
    * Find a Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation Physician (American Academy of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation)
    * Find a Physical Therapist (American Physical Therapy Association)

## Children

    * Going to a Physical Therapist (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Going to an Occupational Therapist (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Learning Through Play (American Occupational Therapy Association)
    * Occupational Therapy (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Physical Therapy (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Physical medicine and rehabilitation (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Skilled nursing and rehabilitation facilities - choosing (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Skilled nursing or rehabilitation facilities (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Rehabilitation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Rehabilitation.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Leaving the hospital - your discharge plan
    * Physical medicine and rehabilitation
    * Skilled nursing and rehabilitation facilities - choosing
    * Skilled nursing or rehabilitation facilities

## Related Health Topics

    * Assistive Devices
    * Cardiac Rehabilitation
    * Disabilities
    * Pulmonary Rehabilitation
    * Stroke Rehabilitation

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Rehabilitation_

## NIH MedlinePlus Magazine

    * NIH-Kennedy Center Initiative Explores 'Music and the Mind'

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 6 February 2020 Topic last reviewed: 17 September 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

