Link: https://medlineplus.gov/growthdisorders.html    
                                Description: Growth disorders affect a child&#39;s development. The pituitary gland makes growth hormone. Abnormal growth can signal a gland problem or disease.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Growth Disorders

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/growthdisorders.html

#  Growth Disorders

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Does your child seem much shorter - or much taller - than other kids his or
her age? It could be normal. Some children may be small for their age but
still be developing normally. Some children are short or tall because their
parents are.

But some children have growth disorders. Growth disorders are problems that
prevent children from developing normal height, weight, sexual maturity or
other features.

Very slow or very fast growth can sometimes signal a gland problem or disease.

The pituitary gland makes growth hormone, which stimulates the growth of bone
and other tissues. Children who have too little of it may be very short.
Treatment with growth hormone can stimulate growth.

People can also have too much growth hormone. Usually the cause is a pituitary
gland tumor, which is not cancer. Too much growth hormone can cause gigantism
in children, where their bones and their body grow too much. In adults, it can
cause acromegaly, which makes the hands, feet and face larger than normal.
Possible treatments include surgery to remove the tumor, medicines, and
radiation therapy.

## Start Here

    * What Is a Growth Disorder? (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Growth Charts (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Growth Hormone (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
    * IGF-1 (Insulin-Like Growth Factor -1) Test (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
    * X-Ray Exam: Bone Age Study (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Growth Hormone: Use and Abuse (Hormone Health Network)
    * Health Alert: Adrenal Crisis Causes Death in Some People Who Were Treated with hGH ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
    * Human Growth Hormone (HGH): Does It Slow Aging? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Information for People Treated with Human Growth Hormone (Comprehensive Report) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
    * Information for People Treated with Human Growth Hormone (Summary) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Specifics

    * Acromegaly ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
    * Growth Hormone Deficiency (Hormone Health Network) Also in Spanish
    * Noonan Syndrome (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)
    * Sotos Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Cockayne syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: DNMT3A overgrowth syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Floating-Harbor syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: geleophysic dysplasia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: isolated growth hormone deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Laron syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: mosaic variegated aneuploidy syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Noonan syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Russell-Silver syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: short stature, hyperextensibility, hernia, ocular depression, Rieger anomaly, and teething delay ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Sotos syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Warsaw breakage syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Weaver syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Wiedemann-Rautenstrauch syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: X-linked acrogigantism ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: X-linked spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia tarda ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Statistics and Research

    * FastStats: Body Measurements (National Center for Health Statistics)
    * Stature-for-Age and Weight-for-Age Percentiles: Boys, 2 to 20 Years (National Center for Health Statistics) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Stature-for-Age and Weight-for-Age Percentiles: Girls 2 to 20 Years (National Center for Health Statistics) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Acromegaly ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Failure to Thrive ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Growth Disorders ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: MicroRNA-206 predicts raised fetal growth retardation risk through the interaction with...
    * Article: Laboratory investigations in the diagnosis and follow-up of GH-related disorders.
    * Article: Update on new GH-IGF axis genetic defects.
    * Growth Disorders -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
    * Find an Endocrinologist (Hormone Health Network)
    * Hormone Health Network

## Children

    * Failure to Thrive (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Growth Failure in Children with Chronic Kidney Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Teenagers

    * Delayed Puberty (For Teens) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Growth Problems (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Acromegaly (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Delayed growth (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Failure to thrive (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Gigantism (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Growth chart (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Growth hormone deficiency (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Growth hormone test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Short stature (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Growth Disorder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GrowthDisorders.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Acromegaly
    * Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome
    * Delayed growth
    * Failure to thrive
    * Gigantism
    * Growth chart
    * Growth hormone deficiency
    * Growth hormone stimulation test
    * Growth hormone suppression test
    * Growth hormone test
    * McCune-Albright syndrome
    * Russell-Silver syndrome
    * Short stature

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

    * Dwarfism
    * Endocrine Diseases
    * Hormones
    * Pituitary Disorders
    * Turner Syndrome

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Growth Disorders is the Eunice
Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 30 November 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

