Link: https://medlineplus.gov/opioidmisuseandaddictiontreatment.html    
                                Description: Opioid misuse and addiction are serious problems. Treatments include medicines and counseling. Combining these two treatments, which is called medication-assisted therapy (MAT), can increase your chance of a successful recovery.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Opioid Misuse and Addiction Treatment

URL of this page:
https://medlineplus.gov/opioidmisuseandaddictiontreatment.html

#  Opioid Misuse and Addiction Treatment

Also called: Opioid Abuse and Addiction Treatment, Opioid Use Disorder
Treatment

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What are opioids?

Opioids, sometimes called narcotics, are a type of drug. They include strong
prescription pain relievers, such as oxycodone, hydrocodone, fentanyl, and
tramadol. The illegal drug heroin is also an opioid.

A health care provider may give you a prescription opioid to reduce pain after
you have had a major injury or surgery. You may get them if you have severe
pain from health conditions like cancer. Some health care providers prescribe
them for chronic pain.

Prescription opioids used for pain relief are generally safe when taken for a
short time and as prescribed by your health care provider. However, opioid
misuse and addiction are still potential risks.

### What are opioid misuse and addiction?

Opioid misuse means you are not taking the medicines according to your
provider's instructions, you are using them to get high, or you are taking
someone else's opioids. Addiction is a chronic brain disease. It causes you to
compulsively seek out drugs even though they cause you harm.

### What are the treatments for opioid misuse and addiction?

Treatments for opioid misuse and addiction include

    * Medicines
    * Counseling and behavioral therapies
    * Medication-assisted therapy (MAT), which includes medicines, counseling, and behavioral therapies. This offers a "whole patient" approach to treatment, which can increase your chance of a successful recovery.
    * Residential and hospital-based treatment

### Which medicines treat opioid misuse and addiction?

The medicines used to treat opioid misuse and addiction are methadone,
buprenorphine, and naltrexone.

**Methadone** and **buprenorphine** can decrease withdrawal symptoms and
cravings. They work by acting on the same targets in the brain as other
opioids, but they do not make you feel high. Some people worry that if they
take methadone or buprenorphine, it means that they are substituting one
addiction for another. But it is not; these medicines are a treatment. They
restore balance to the parts of the brain affected by addiction. This allows
your brain to heal while you work toward recovery.

There is also a combination drug that includes buprenorphine and naloxone.
Naloxone is a drug to treat an opioid overdose. If you take it along with
buprenorphine, you will be less likely to misuse the buprenorphine.

You may safely take these medicines for months, years, or even a lifetime. If
you want to stop taking them, do not do it on your own. You should contact
your health care provider first, and work out a plan for stopping.

**Naltrexone** works differently than methadone and buprenorphine. It does not
help you with withdrawal symptoms or cravings. Instead, it takes away the high
that you would normally get when you take opioids. Because of this, you would
take naltrexone to prevent a relapse, not to try to get off opioids. You have
to be off opioids for at least 7-10 days before you can take naltrexone.
Otherwise you could have bad withdrawal symptoms.

### How does counseling treat opioid misuse and addiction?

Counseling for opioid misuse and addiction can help you

    * Change your attitudes and behaviors related to drug use
    * Build healthy life skills
    * Stick with other forms of treatment, such as medicines

There are different types of counseling to treat opioid misuse and addiction,
including

    * **Individual counseling** , which may include setting goals, talking about setbacks, and celebrating progress. You may also talk about legal concerns and family problems. Counseling often includes specific behavioral therapies, such as
      * **Cognitive-behavioral therapy** (CBT) helps you recognize and stop negative patterns of thinking and behavior. It teaches you coping skills, including how to manage stress and change the thoughts that cause you to want to misuse opioids.
      * **Motivational enhancement therapy** helps you build up motivation to stick with your treatment plan
      * **Contingency management** focuses on giving you incentives for positive behaviors such as staying off the opioids
    * **Group counseling** , which can help you feel that you are not alone with your issues. You get a chance to hear about the difficulties and successes of others who have the same challenges. This can help you to learn new strategies for dealing with the situations you may come across.
    * **Family counseling/** includes partners or spouses and other family members who are close to you. It can help to repair and improve your family relationships.

Counselors can also refer you to other resources that you might need, such as

    * Peer support groups, including 12-step programs like Narcotics Anonymous
    * Spiritual and faith-based groups
    * HIV testing and hepatitis screening
    * Case or care management
    * Employment or educational supports
    * Organizations that help you find housing or transportation

### What are residential and hospital-based treatments for opioid misuse and
addiction?

Residential programs combine housing and treatment services. You are living
with your peers, and you can support each other to stay in recovery. Inpatient
hospital-based programs combine health care and addiction treatment services
for people with medical problems. Hospitals may also offer intensive
outpatient treatment. All these types of treatments are very structured, and
usually include several different kinds of counseling and behavioral
therapies. They also often include medicines.

## Start Here

    * Medication and Counseling Treatment (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration)
    * Medications to Treat Opioid Use Disorder ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Managing Pain: Moving Beyond Opioids ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
    * Medication-Assisted Treatment for Opioid Addiction: Facts for Families and Friends (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration) \- PDF

## Specifics

    * Buprenorphine (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration)
    * Methadone (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration)
    * Naloxone (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration)
    * Naltrexone (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: opioid addiction ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Videos and Tutorials

    * How Naloxone Saves Lives in Opioid Overdose ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Medication-Assisted Treatment ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Management of dependent use of illicit opioids.
    * Article: Improvement in women's cardiovascular functioning during cognitive-behavioral therapy for alcohol use...
    * Article: A Brief Overview of Identification and Management of Opiate Use Disorder...
    * Opioid Misuse and Addiction Treatment -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Commonly Used Opioid Terms (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Find an Expert

    * Opioid Treatment Program Directory (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration)

## Patient Handouts

    * Facts about Buprenorphine for Treatment of Opioid Addiction (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration) \- PDF
    * Medication-Assisted Treatment for Opioid Addiction: Facts for Families and Friends (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration) \- PDF

## Topic Image

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OpioidAddictionTreatment.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## Related Health Topics

    * Opioid Misuse and Addiction
    * Opioid Overdose
    * Prescription Drug Misuse

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Opioid Misuse and Addiction
Treatment is the National Institute on Drug Abuse

## NIH MedlinePlus Magazine

    * Renewal and Recovery after Opioid Dependence

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 14 January 2020 Topic last reviewed: 27 August 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

