Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ischemicstroke.html    
                                Description: A stroke is a medical emergency that should be treated immediately. Read about the causes, symptoms and treatments for an ischemic stroke.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Ischemic Stroke

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/ischemicstroke.html

#  Ischemic Stroke

Also called: Embolic Stroke, Thrombotic stroke

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Prevention and Risk Factors

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images
    * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * No links available

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

A stroke is a medical emergency. There are two types - ischemic and
hemorrhagic. Ischemic stroke is the most common type. It is usually caused by
a blood clot that blocks or plugs a blood vessel in the brain. This keeps
blood from flowing to the brain. Within minutes, brain cells begin to die.
Another cause is stenosis, or narrowing of the artery. This can happen because
of atherosclerosis, a disease in which plaque builds up inside your arteries.
Transient ischemic attacks (TIAs) occur when the blood supply to the brain is
interrupted briefly. Having a TIA can mean you are at risk for having a more
serious stroke.

Symptoms of stroke are

    * Sudden numbness or weakness of the face, arm or leg (especially on one side of the body)
    * Sudden confusion, trouble speaking or understanding speech
    * Sudden trouble seeing in one or both eyes
    * Sudden trouble walking, dizziness, loss of balance or coordination
    * Sudden severe headache with no known cause

It is important to treat strokes as quickly as possible. Blood thinners may be
used to stop a stroke while it is happening by quickly dissolving the blood
clot. Post-stroke rehabilitation can help people overcome disabilities caused
by stroke damage.

NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Start Here

    * Ischemic Stroke (Clots) (American Heart Association)
    * Let's Talk about Ischemic Stroke (American Heart Association) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Carotid Endarterectomy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)
    * Device Interventions for Stroke Prevention in Atrial Fibrillation (American Heart Association)
    * Questions and Answers about Carotid Endarterectomy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Questions and Answers about Treating Arterial Stenosis and Preventing Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * What Are Anticoagulants and Antiplatelet Agents? ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (American Heart Association) \- PDF

## Related Issues

    * Atherosclerosis and Stroke (American Stroke Association)

## Specifics

    * CADASIL ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: adenosine deaminase 2 deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: cerebral autosomal recessive arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Images

    * Stroke - slideshow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Videos and Tutorials

    * Stroke ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Stroke - secondary to cardiogenic embolism ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Statistics and Research

    * Stroke Facts: Stroke Statistics (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Stroke, tPA, and Physician Decision-Making (American Academy of Neurology) \- PDF

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Brain Ischemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Carotid Stenosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Impact of Air Pollution and Seasonal Haze on Neurological Conditions.
    * Article: The association between homocysteine and ischemic stroke subtypes in Chinese: A...
    * Article: Study on the risk prediction for cerebral infarction after transient ischemic...
    * Ischemic Stroke -- see more articles

## Patient Handouts

    * Preventing stroke (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Stroke - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Thrombolytic therapy (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Ischemic Stroke](https://medlineplus.gov/images/IschemicStroke.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Stroke
    * Stroke - secondary to cardiogenic embolism
    * Stroke - slideshow
    * Thrombolytic therapy

## Related Health Topics

    * Hemorrhagic Stroke
    * Stroke
    * Stroke Rehabilitation

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Ischemic Stroke is the National
Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 19 February 2020 Topic last reviewed: 18 September 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

