Link: https://medlineplus.gov/respiratorysyncytialvirusinfections.html    
                                Description: Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) causes cold-like symptoms in adults and healthy children, but can cause serious problems in babies. Read more.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Respiratory Syncytial Virus Infections

URL of this page:
https://medlineplus.gov/respiratorysyncytialvirusinfections.html

#  Respiratory Syncytial Virus Infections

Also called: RSV

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Diagnosis and Tests
  * Prevention and Risk Factors
  * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

  * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

  * No links available

### Research

  * Statistics and Research
  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Children
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is respiratory syncytial virus (RSV)?

Respiratory syncytial virus, or RSV, is a common respiratory virus. It usually
causes mild, cold-like symptoms. But it can cause serious lung infections,
especially in infants, older adults, and people with serious medical problems.

### How is respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) spread?

RSV spreads from person to person through

  * The air by coughing and sneezing
  * Direct contact, such as kissing the face of a child who has RSV
  * Touching an object or surface with the virus on it, then touching your mouth, nose, or eyes before washing your hands

People who have an RSV infection are usually contagious for 3 to 8 days. But
sometimes infants and people with weakened immune systems can continue to
spread the virus for as long as 4 weeks.

### Who is at risk for respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infections?

RSV can affect people of all ages. But it is very common in small children;
nearly all children become infected with RSV by age 2. In the United States,
RSV infections usually occur during fall, winter, or spring.

Certain people are at higher risk of having a severe RSV infection:

  * Infants
  * Older adults, especially those age 65 and older
  * People with chronic medical conditions such as heart or lung disease
  * People with weakened immune systems

### What are the symptoms of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infections?

The symptoms of RSV infection usually start about 4 to 6 days after infection.
They include

  * Runny nose
  * Decrease in appetite
  * Cough
  * Sneezing
  * Fever
  * Wheezing

These symptoms usually appear in stages instead of all at once. In very young
infants, the only symptoms may be irritability, decreased activity, and
trouble breathing.

RSV can also cause more severe infections, especially in people at high risk.
These infections include bronchiolitis, an inflammation of the small airways
in the lung, and pneumonia, an infection of the lungs.

### How are respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infections diagnosed?

To make a diagnosis, the health care provider

  * Will take a medical history, including asking about symptoms
  * Will do a physical exam
  * May do a lab test of nasal fluid or another respiratory specimen to check for RSV. This is usually done for people with severe infection.
  * May do tests to check for complications in people with severe infection. The tests may include a chest x-ray and blood and urine tests.

### What are the treatments for respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infections?

There is no specific treatment for RSV infection. Most infections go away on
their own in a week or two. Over-the-counter pain relievers can help with the
fever and pain. However, do not give aspirin to children. And do not give
cough medicine to children under four. It is also important to get enough
fluids to prevent dehydration.

Some people with severe infection may need to be hospitalized. There, they
might get oxygen, a breathing tube, or a ventilator.

### Can respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infections be prevented?

There are no vaccines for RSV. But you may able to reduce your risk of getting
or spreading an RSV infection by

  * Washing your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds
  * Avoiding touching your face, nose, or mouth with unwashed hands
  * Avoiding close contact, such as kissing, shaking hands, and sharing cups and eating utensils, with others if you are sick or they are sick
  * Cleaning and disinfecting surfaces that you frequently touch
  * Covering coughs and sneezes with a tissue. Then throw away the tissue and wash your hands
  * Staying home when sick

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Start Here

  * Learn about Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) (American Lung Association)
  * Respiratory Syncytial Virus (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
  * Respiratory Syncytial Virus ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases)

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

  * Protecting Your Baby from RSV (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish
  * Respiratory Syncytial Virus Infection (RSV): Transmission and Prevention (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Treatments and Therapies

  * Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV): Treatment ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases)

## Specifics

  * Bronchiolitis (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish

## Statistics and Research

  * Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV): Trends and Surveillance (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Bronchiolitis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Respiratory Syncytial Virus Infections ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Recent advances in the detection of respiratory virus infection in humans.
  * Article: Respiratory syncytial virus nonstructural proteins 1 and 2: Exceptional disrupters of...
  * Article: Immunological Lessons from Respiratory Syncytial Virus Vaccine Development.
  * Respiratory Syncytial Virus Infections -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

  * American Lung Association
  * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

  * Bronchiolitis (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
  * Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

  * Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * RSV antibody test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Respiratory Syncytial Virus
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RespiratorySyncytialVirusInfections.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Nasopharyngeal culture
  * Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV)
  * RSV antibody test

## Related Health Topics

  * Viral Infections

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Respiratory Syncytial Virus
Infections is the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 27 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 4 March 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

