Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ovariancysts.html    
                                Description: An ovarian cyst is a fluid-filled sac in or on the ovary. Most women have them sometime in their lives. Cysts are rarely cancerous in women under 50.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Ovarian Cysts

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/ovariancysts.html

#  Ovarian Cysts

## Summary

The ovaries are part of the female reproductive system. They produce a woman's
eggs and make female hormones. Ovarian cysts are fluid-filled sacs in or on an
ovary. They usually form during ovulation, when the ovary releases an egg.
They are usually harmless and go away by themselves. Most women have them
sometime during their lives.

Most ovarian cysts are small and don't cause symptoms. Women may not find out
that they have them until they have a pelvic exam. If there are symptoms, they
may include

    * Pressure
    * Bloating
    * Swelling
    * Pain in the lower abdomen, on the side where the cyst is

If your health care provider finds a cyst, you may be able to wait to see if
it gets bigger. You may need surgery if you have pain, are past menopause, or
if the cyst does not go away. If a cyst bursts or causes bleeding, you should
get medical help right away. Birth control pills can help prevent new cysts.

Rarely, ovarian cysts can become cancerous. This risk increases as you get
older.

A health problem that involves ovarian cysts is polycystic ovary syndrome
(PCOS). Women with PCOS can have high levels of male hormones, irregular or no
periods, and small ovarian cysts.

Dept. of Health and Human Services Office on Women's Health

## Learn More

    * Culdocentesis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * DHEA-sulfate test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) blood test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Laparoscopy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Ovarian Cyst (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Ovarian Cysts (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Ovarian Cysts (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health) Also in Spanish
    * Ovarian Cysts and Fertility: Is There a Connection? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Ovarian Cysts FAQ (American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists) \- PDF
    * Pelvic laparoscopy (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Pelvic laparoscopy - slideshow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Pelvis MRI scan (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Transvaginal ultrasound (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Ultrasound -- Pelvis ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Ovarian Cysts ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Dermoid cyst with secretion of CA 19-9 detected by 18F-FDG PET/CT:...
    * Article: NATURALLY-OCCURRING AUTOANTIBODIES TO HUMAN CHORIONIC GONADOTROPIN AND ITS SUBUNITS IN OVARIAN...
    * Article: Hyperreactio luteinalis - two accidental findings during cesarean section.
    * Ovarian Cysts -- see more articles

## Patient Handouts

    * Ovarian cysts (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Ovarian Cysts](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OvarianCyst2.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Ovarian Cysts is the Eunice
Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 18 March 2019 Topic last reviewed: 16 June 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

