Link: https://medlineplus.gov/about/general/welcome/    
                                Description: A message about MedlinePlus from Patricia Flatley Brennan, RN, PhD, Director of the National Library of Medicine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

About MedlinePlus ->

General Information about MedlinePlus ->

A Message from the Director

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/about/general/welcome/

# A Message from the Director

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/about-brennan.jpg)

Patricia Flatley Brennan, RN, PhD  
Director, National Library of Medicine

The National Library of Medicine (NLM) is deeply committed to providing
patients and their families and friends with reliable, up-to-date health
information. Since 1998, when NLM first launched the MedlinePlus website, we
have been bringing critical information about diseases, conditions, and
wellness to the public. Our librarians select the most relevant, authoritative
information from experts at NIH and beyond. Every day, close to one million
people turn to MedlinePlus for accurate health information that is available
anytime, anywhere, on any device, for free.

MedlinePlus covers a broad range of topics ranging from medical conditions
such as high blood pressure, cancer, and diabetes, to important public health
issues including bullying, opioid misuse and addiction, mental health, and
HIV/AIDS. Additional resources include a medical encyclopedia, information
about prescription and over-the-counter medicines, pages on herbs and
supplements, and descriptions of medical tests. We also offer videos,
tutorials and other interactive tools and games. Our Spanish language version
of the site, MedlinePlus en espaÃ±ol, makes this useful information available
to Spanish-speaking audiences as well.

Our team at NLM is constantly working to meet your needs, and MedlinePlus
continues to evolve. As described in our 2017-2027 strategic plan, our ability
to transform data and information to accelerate biomedical discovery and
improve health care is a driving force to address our nation's public health
challenges. MedlinePlus is just one of many trusted resources from NLM that
can help meet the demand for immediate access to the right information.

We are here to be your partners in health, and I welcome your feedback. You
can find me on Twitter or visit my blog, NLM Musings from the Mezzanine. You
can also send suggestions or questions about our health information resources
using the "Customer Support" link at the top of any MedlinePlus page.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/about-brennan-signature.jpg)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 7 November 2019

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

