Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/alpha-1-antitrypsin-test/    
                                Description: This test measures the level of alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT) in the blood. AAT is a protein that protects the lungs from damage. A low level of AAT is a sign of AAT deficiency, an inherited disorder caused by a genetic mutation. It can lead to lung disease at an early age. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/alpha-1-antitrypsin-test/

# Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is an alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT) test?

This test measures the amount of alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT) in the blood. AAT
is a protein that is made in the liver. It helps protect your lungs from
damage and diseases, such as emphysema and chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease (COPD).

AAT is made by certain genes in your body. Genes are the basic units of
heredity passed down from your parents. They carry information that determines
your unique traits, such as height and eye color. Everyone inherits two copies
of the gene that makes AAT, one from their father and one from their mother.
If there is a mutation (change) in one or both copies of this gene, your body
will make less AAT or AAT that doesn't work as well as it should.

    * **If you have two mutated copies of the gene** , it means you have a condition called AAT deficiency. People with this disorder have a higher risk of getting lung disease or liver damage before the age of 45.
    * **If you have one mutated AAT gene** , you may have lower than normal amounts of AAT, but mild or no symptoms of disease. People with one mutated gene are carriers of AAT deficiency. This means you don't have the condition, but you could pass the mutated gene on to your children.

An AAT test can help show if you have the genetic mutation that puts you at
risk for disease.

Other names: A1AT, AAT, alpha-1-antiprotease deficiency, Î±1-antitrypsin

## What is it used for?

An AAT test is most often used to help diagnose AAT deficiency in people who
develop lung disease at an early age (45 years or younger) and do not have
other risk factors such as smoking.

The test may also be used to diagnose a rare form of liver disease in infants.

## Why do I need an AAT test?

You may need an AAT test if you are under the age of 45, are not a smoker, and
have symptoms of lung disease, including:

    * Wheezing
    * Shortness of breath
    * Chronic cough
    * Faster than normal heartbeat when you stand up
    * Vision problems
    * Asthma that doesn't respond well to treatment

You may also get this test if you have a family history of AAT deficiency.

AAT deficiency in babies often affects the liver. So your baby may need an AAT
test if his or her health care provider finds signs of liver disease. These
include:

    * Jaundice, a yellowing of the skin and eyes that lasts for more than a week or two
    * An enlarged spleen
    * Frequent itching

## What happens during an AAT test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for an AAT test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little physical risk to a blood test. You may have slight pain
or bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

If your results show a lower than normal amount of AAT, it probably means you
have one or two mutated AAT genes. The lower the level, the more likely it is
you have two mutated genes and AAT deficiency.

If you are diagnosed with AAT deficiency, you can take steps to reduce your
risk of disease. These include:

    * Not smoking. If you are a smoker, quit smoking. If you don't smoke, don't start. Smoking is the leading risk factor for life-threatening lung disease in people with AAT deficiency.
    * Following a healthy diet
    * Getting regular exercise
    * Seeing your health care provider regularly
    * Taking medicines as prescribed by your provider

If you have questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about an AAT test?

Before agreeing to be tested, it may help to speak with a genetic counselor. A
genetic counselor is a specially trained professional in genetics and genetic
testing. A counselor can help you understand the risks and benefits of
testing. If you are tested, a counselor can help you understand the results
and provide information on the condition, including your risk of passing the
disease on to your children.

## References

    1. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Alpha-1 Antitrypsin; [updated 2019 Jun 7; cited 2019 Oct 1]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/alpha-1-antitrypsin
    2. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Jaundice; [updated 2018 Feb 2; cited 2019 Oct 1]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/jaundice
    3. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2019. Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Deficiency; [updated 2018 Nov; cited 2019 Oct 1]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/lung-and-airway-disorders/chronic-obstructive-pulmonary-disease-copd/alpha-1-antitrypsin-deficiency?query=alpha-1%20antitrypsin
    4. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Deficiency; [cited 2019 Oct 1]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/alpha-1-antitrypsin-deficiency
    5. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests; [cited 2019 Oct 1]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    6. NIH U.S. National Library of Medicine: Genetics Home Reference [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What is a gene?; 2019 Oct 1 [cited 2019 Oct 1]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/primer/basics/gene
    7. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Alpha-1 antitrypsin blood test: Overview; [updated 2019 Oct 1; cited 2019 Oct 1]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/alpha-1-antitrypsin-blood-test
    8. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Alpha-1 Antitrypsin; [cited 2019 Oct 1]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid=alpha_1_antitrypsin
    9. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Genetic Testing: What is Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Deficiency?; [updated 2018 Sep 5; cited 2019 Oct 1]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/special/alpha-1-antitrypsin-deficiency-genetic-testing/uf6753.html
    10. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Genetic Testing: What is Genetic Counseling?; [updated 2018 Sep 5; cited 2019 Oct 1]; [about 7 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/special/alpha-1-antitrypsin-deficiency-genetic-testing/uf6753.html#tv8548
    11. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Genetic Testing: Why Would I Not Be Tested?; [updated 2018 Sep 5; cited 2019 Oct 1]; [about 6 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/special/alpha-1-antitrypsin-deficiency-genetic-testing/uf6753.html#uf6790

## Related Health Topics

    * Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Deficiency
    * Asthma
    * Breathing Problems
    * Cirrhosis
    * COPD
    * Emphysema
    * Genetic Counseling
    * Genetic Disorders
    * Liver Diseases
    * Lung Diseases
    * Quitting Smoking

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 19 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

