Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/malaria-tests/    
                                Description: Malaria is a disease caused by a parasite and transmitted by mosquitos. Malaria tests look for parasites in the blood. Malaria can be deadly, but can be cured if treated in the early stages of infection. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Malaria Tests

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/malaria-tests/

# Malaria Tests

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What are malaria tests?

Malaria is a serious disease caused by a parasite. Parasites are tiny plants
or animals that get nutrients by living off another creature. Parasites that
cause malaria are passed to humans through the bite of infected mosquitos. At
first, malaria symptoms may be similar to those of the flu. Later on, malaria
can lead to life-threatening complications.

Malaria is not contagious like a cold or flu, but it can be spread from person
to person by mosquitos. If a mosquito bites an infected person, it will spread
the parasite to anyone it bites afterward. If you are bitten by an infected
mosquito, the parasites will travel into your bloodstream. The parasites will
multiply inside your red blood cells and cause illness. Malaria tests look for
signs of a malaria infection in the blood.

Malaria is common in tropical and subtropical areas. Every year, millions of
people are infected with malaria, and hundreds of thousands of people die from
the disease. Most people who die from malaria are young children in Africa.
While malaria is found in more than 87 countries, most infections and deaths
happen in Africa. Malaria is rare in the United States. But U.S. citizens who
travel to Africa and other tropical countries are at risk for getting
infected.

Other names: malaria blood smear, malaria rapid diagnostic test, malaria by
PCR

## What are they used for?

Malaria tests are used to diagnose malaria. If malaria is diagnosed and
treated early, it can usually be cured. Left untreated, malaria can lead to
life-threatening complications, including kidney failure, liver failure, and
internal bleeding.

## Why do I need a malaria test?

You may need this test if you live or have recently traveled to an area where
malaria is common and you have symptoms of malaria. Most people will have
symptoms within 14 days of being bitten by an infected mosquito. But symptoms
can show up as soon as seven days afterward or can take as long as a year to
appear. In the early stages of infection, malaria symptoms are similar to the
flu, and may include:

    * Fever
    * Chills
    * Fatigue
    * Headache
    * Body aches
    * Nausea and vomiting

In the later stages of infection, symptoms are more serious and may include:

    * High fever
    * Shivering and chills
    * Convulsions
    * Bloody stools
    * Jaundice (yellowing of the skin and eyes)
    * Seizures
    * Mental confusion

## What happens during a malaria test?

Your health care provider will probably ask about your symptoms and for
details on your recent travels. If an infection is suspected, your blood will
be tested to check for signs of a malaria infection.

During a blood test, a health care professional will take a blood sample from
a vein in your arm, using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a
small amount of blood will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel
a little sting when the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than
five minutes.

Your blood sample may be tested in one or both of the following ways.

    *  **Blood smear test.** In a blood smear, a drop of blood is put on a specially treated slide. A laboratory professional will examine the slide under a microscope and look for parasites.
    *  **Rapid diagnostic test.** This test looks for proteins known as antigens, which are released by malaria parasites. It can provide faster results than a blood smear, but a blood smear is usually needed to confirm a diagnosis.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't any special preparations for a malaria test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

If your results were negative, but you still have malaria symptoms, you may
need retesting. The number of malaria parasites can vary at times. So your
provider may order blood smears every 12-24 hours over a period of two to
three days. It's important to find out whether you have malaria so you can get
treated quickly.

If your results were positive, your health care provider will prescribe
medicine to treat the disease. The type of medicine will depend on your age,
how serious your malaria symptoms are, and whether you are pregnant. When
treated early, most cases of malaria can be cured.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about malaria tests?

If you will be traveling to an area where malaria is common, talk to your
health care provider before you go. He or she may prescribe a medicine that
can help prevent malaria.

There are also steps you can take to prevent mosquito bites. This may reduce
your risk of getting malaria and other infections transmitted by mosquitos. To
prevent bites, you should:

    * Apply an insect repellent containing DEET on your skin and clothing.
    * Wear long-sleeved shirts and pants.
    * Use screens on windows and doors.
    * Sleep under a mosquito net.

## References

    1. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Malaria: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) [cited 2019 May 26]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/malaria/about/faqs.html
    2. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Parasites: About Parasites [cited 2019 May 26]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/parasites/about.html
    3. Cleveland Clinic [Internet]. Cleveland (OH): Cleveland Clinic; c2019. Malaria: Diagnosis and Tests [cited 2019 May 26]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/diseases/15014-malaria/diagnosis-and-tests
    4. Cleveland Clinic [Internet]. Cleveland (OH): Cleveland Clinic; c2019. Malaria: Management and Treatment [cited 2019 May 26]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/diseases/15014-malaria/management-and-treatment
    5. Cleveland Clinic [Internet]. Cleveland (OH): Cleveland Clinic; c2019. Malaria: Outlook/Prognosis [cited 2019 May 26]; [about 7 screens]. Available from: https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/diseases/15014-malaria/outlook--prognosis
    6. Cleveland Clinic [Internet]. Cleveland (OH): Cleveland Clinic; c2019. Malaria: Overview [cited 2019 May 26]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/diseases/15014-malaria
    7. Kids Health from Nemours [Internet]. Jacksonville (FL): The Nemours Foundation; c1995â2019. Malaria [cited 2019 May 26]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://kidshealth.org/en/parents/malaria.html
    8. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Malaria [updated 2017 Dec 4; cited 2019 May 26]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/malaria
    9. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. Malaria: Diagnosis and treatment; 2018 Dec 13 [cited 2019 May 26]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/malaria/diagnosis-treatment/drc-20351190
    10. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. Malaria: Symptoms and causes; 2018 Dec 13 [cited 2019 May 26]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/malaria/symptoms-causes/syc-20351184
    11. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2019. Malaria [cited 2019 May 26]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/infections/parasitic-infections/malaria?query=malaria
    12. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2019 May 26]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    13. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Malaria: Overview [updated 2019 May 26; cited 2019 May 26]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/malaria
    14. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Malaria [cited 2019 May 26]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=85&contentid=P00635
    15. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Malaria: Cause [updated 2018 Jul 30; cited 2019 May 26]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/major/malaria/hw119119.html#hw119142
    16. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Malaria: Exams and Tests [updated 2018 Jul 30; cited 2019 May 26]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/major/malaria/hw119119.html#hw119236
    17. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Malaria: Symptoms [updated 2018 Jul 30; cited 2019 May 26]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/major/malaria/hw119119.html#hw119160
    18. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Malaria: Topic Overview [updated 2018 Jul 30; cited 2019 May 26]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/major/malaria/hw119119.html
    19. World Health Organization [Internet]. Geneva (SUI): WHO; c2019. Malaria; 2019 Mar 27 [cited 2019 May 26]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/malaria

## Related Health Topics

    * Malaria
    * Mosquito Bites
    * Parasitic Diseases

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Blood Smear
    * Dengue Fever Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Zika Virus Test

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

