Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/opioid-testing/    
                                Description: Opioid testing looks for the presence of opioids in your body. Opioid addiction is a growing and dangerous problem. Testing may help prevent serious consequences. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Opioid Testing

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/opioid-testing/

# Opioid Testing

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is opioid testing?

Opioid testing looks for the presence of opioids in urine, blood, or saliva.
Opioids are powerful drugs that are used to relieve pain. They are often
prescribed to help treat serious injuries or illnesses. In addition to
reducing pain, opioids can also increase feelings of pleasure and well-being.
Once an opioid dose wears off, it's natural to want those feelings to return.
So even using opioids as prescribed by a doctor can lead to dependence and
addiction.

The terms "opioids" and "opiates" are often used in the same way. An opiate is
a type of opioid that comes naturally from the opium poppy plant. Opiates
include the medicines codeine and morphine, as well as the illegal drug
heroin. Other opioids are synthetic (man-made) or part synthetic (part natural
and part man-made). Both types are designed to produce effects similar to a
naturally occurring opiate. These types of opioids include:

    * Oxycodone (OxyContinÂ®)
    * Hydrocodone (VicodinÂ®)
    * Hydromorphone
    * Oxymorphone
    * Methadone
    * Fentanyl. Drug dealers sometimes add fentanyl to heroin. This combination of drugs is especially dangerous.

Opioids are often misused, leading to overdoses and death. In the United
States, tens of thousands of people die every year from opioid overdoses.
Opioid testing can help prevent or treat addiction before it becomes
dangerous.

Other names: opioid screening, opiate screening, opiate testing

## What is it used for?

Opioid testing is often used to monitor people who are taking prescription
opioids. The test helps ensure you are taking the right amount of medicine.

Opioid testing may also be included as part of an overall drug screening.
These screenings test for a variety of drugs, such as marijuana and cocaine,
as well as opioids. Drug screenings may be used for:

    *  **Employment.** Employers may test you before and/or after hiring to check for on-the-job drug use.
    *  **Legal or forensic purposes.** Testing may be part of a criminal or motor vehicle accident investigation. Drug screening may also be ordered as part of a court case.

## Why do I need opioid testing?

You may need opioid testing if you are currently taking prescription opioids
to treat chronic pain or another medical condition. The tests can tell if you
are taking more medicine than you should, which can be a sign of addiction.

You may also be asked to take a drug screening, which includes tests for
opioids, as a condition of your employment or as part of a police
investigation or court case.

Your health care provider may also order opioid testing if you have symptoms
of opioid abuse or overdose. Symptoms may start as lifestyle changes, such as:

    * Lack of hygiene
    * Isolation from family and friends
    * Stealing from family, friends, or businesses
    * Financial difficulties

If opioid abuse continues, physical symptoms may include:

    * Slowed or slurred speech
    * Difficulty breathing
    * Dilated or small pupils
    * Delirium
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Drowsiness
    * Agitation
    * Changes in blood pressure or heart rhythm

## What happens during an opioid test?

Most opioid tests require that you give a urine sample. You will be given
instructions to provide a "clean catch" sample. **During a clean catch urine
test, you will:**

    * Wash your hands
    * Clean your genital area with a cleansing pad given to you by your provider. Men should wipe the tip of their penis. Women should open their labia and clean from front to back.
    * Start to urinate into the toilet.
    * Move the collection container under your urine stream.
    * Pass at least an ounce or two of urine into the container, which should have markings to indicate the amounts.
    * Finish urinating into the toilet.
    * Return the sample container to the lab technician or health care provider.

In certain instances, a medical technician or other staff member may need to
be present while you provide your sample.

Other opioid tests require you to give samples of your blood or saliva.

 **During a blood test** , a health care professional will take a blood sample
from a vein in your arm, using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a
small amount of blood will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel
a little sting when the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than
five minutes.

 **During a saliva test:**

    * A health care provider will use a swab or absorbent pad to collect saliva from the inside of your cheek.
    * The swab or pad will stay in your cheek for a few minutes to allow saliva to build up.

Some providers may ask you to spit into a tube, rather than swabbing inside
your cheek.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

Be sure to tell the testing provider or your health care provider if you are
taking any prescription or over-the-counter medicines. Some of these may cause
positive results for opioids. Poppy seeds can also cause a positive opioid
result. So you should avoid foods with poppy seeds for up to three days before
your test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There are no known risks to having a urine or saliva test. There is very
little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or bruising at
the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away quickly.

Although physical risks to testing are very small, a positive result on an
opioid test may affect other aspects of your life, including your job or the
outcome of a court case.

## What do the results mean?

If your results are negative, it means no opioids were found in your body, or
that you are taking the right amount of opioids for your health condition. But
if you have symptoms of opioid abuse, your provider will probably order more
tests.

If your results are positive, it may mean that there are opioids in your
system. If high levels of opioids are found, it may mean you are taking too
much of a prescribed medicine or otherwise abusing drugs. False positives are
possible, so your health care provider may order more tests to confirm a
positive result.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about opioid testing?

If your results show unhealthy opioid levels, it's important to get treatment.
Opioid addiction can be deadly.

If you are being treated for chronic pain, work with your health care provider
to find ways to manage pain that don't include opioids. Treatments for anyone
who is abusing opioids may include:

    * Medicines
    * Rehabilitation programs on an inpatient or outpatient basis
    * Ongoing psychological counseling
    * Support groups

## References

    1. Allina Health [Internet]. Minneapolis: Allina Health; Opioid intoxication [cited 2019 Apr 16]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://wellness.allinahealth.org/library/content/1/948
    2. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Opioid Overdose: Information for Patients [updated 2017 Oct 3; cited 2019 Apr 16]; [about 6 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/drugoverdose/patients/index.html
    3. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Urine Drug Testing [cited 2019 Apr 16]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/drugoverdose/pdf/prescribing/CDC-DUIP-UrineDrugTesting_FactSheet-508.pdf
    4. Drugs.com [Internet]. Drugs.com; c2000â2019. Drug Testing FAQs [updated 2017 May 1; cited 2019 Apr 16]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.drugs.com/article/drug-testing.html
    5. Johns Hopkins Medicine [Internet]. Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins University; c2019. Signs of Opioid Abuse [cited 2019 Apr 16]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/opioids/signs-of-opioid-abuse.html
    6. Johns Hopkins Medicine [Internet]. Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins University; c2019. Treating Opioid Addiction [cited 2019 Apr 16]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/opioids/treating-opioid-addiction.html
    7. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Drug Abuse Testing [updated 2019 Jan 16; cited 2019 Apr 16]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/drug-abuse-testing
    8. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Opioid Testing [updated 2018 Dec 18; cited 2019 Apr 16]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/opioid-testing
    9. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. How opioid addiction occurs; 2018 Feb 16 [cited 2019 Apr 16]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/prescription-drug-abuse/in-depth/how-opioid-addiction-occurs/art-20360372
    10. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2019. Opioids [cited 2019 Apr 16]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/special-subjects/recreational-drugs-and-intoxicants/opioids
    11. Milone MC. Laboratory Testing for Prescription Opioids. J Med Toxicol [Internet]. 2012 Dec [cited 2019 Apr 16]; 8 (4): 408â416. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3550258
    12. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2019 Apr 16]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    13. National Institute on Drug Abuse [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Opioids: Brief Description [cited 2019 Apr 16]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.drugabuse.gov/drugs-abuse/opioids
    14. National Institute on Drug Abuse [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Opioid Facts for Teens [updated 2018 Jul; cited 2019 Apr 16]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.drugabuse.gov/publications/opioid-facts-teens/faqs-about-opioids
    15. National Institute on Drug Abuse [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Opioid Overdose Crisis [updated 2019 Jan; cited 2019 Apr 16]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.drugabuse.gov/drugs-abuse/opioids/opioid-overdose-crisis
    16. National Institute on Drug Abuse for Teens [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Drug Testingâ¦for Poppy Seeds?; [updated 2019 May 1; cited 2019 May 1]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://teens.drugabuse.gov/blog/post/drug-testing-poppy-seeds
    17. Northwest Community Healthcare [Internet]. Arlington Heights (IL): Northwest Community Healthcare; c2019. Health Library: Urine drug screen [cited 2019 Apr 16]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: http://nch.adam.com/content.aspx?productId=117&isArticleLink=false&pid=1&gid=003364
    18. Quest Diagnostics [Internet]. Quest Diagnostics; c2000â2019. Drug testing for opiates [cited 2019 Apr 16]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.questdiagnostics.com/home/companies/employer/drug-screening/drugs-tested/opiates.html
    19. Scholl L, Seth P, Kariisa M, Wilson N, Baldwin G. Drug and Opioid-Involved Overdose Deaths-United States, 2013â2017. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep [Internet]. 2019 Jan 4 [cited 2019 Apr 16]; 67(5152):1419â1427. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/67/wr/mm675152e1.htm
    20. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Toxicology Tests: How It Is Done [updated 2017 Oct 9; cited 2019 Apr 16]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/toxicology/hw27448.html#hw27467
    21. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Toxicology Tests: Results [updated 2017 Oct 9; cited 2019 Apr 16]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/toxicology/hw27448.html#hw27505
    22. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Toxicology Tests: Test Overview [updated 2017 Oct 9; cited 2019 Apr 16]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/toxicology/hw27448.html#hw27451

## Related Health Topics

    * Drug Use and Addiction
    * Heroin
    * Opioid Misuse and Addiction
    * Opioid Misuse and Addiction Treatment
    * Opioid Overdose
    * Prescription Drug Misuse
    * Safe Opioid Use

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Drug Testing
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

