Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/creatine-kinase/    
                                Description: This test measures the amount of creatine kinase (CK) in the blood. High levels of CK can indicate damage or disease of the skeletal muscles, heart, or brain. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Creatine Kinase

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/creatine-kinase/

# Creatine Kinase

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a creatine kinase (CK) test?

This test measures the amount of creatine kinase (CK) in the blood. CK is a
type of protein, known as an enzyme. It is mostly found in your skeletal
muscles and heart, with lesser amounts in the brain. Skeletal muscles are the
muscles attached to your skeleton. They work with your bones to help you move
and give your body power and strength. Heart muscles pump blood in and out of
the heart.

There are three types of CK enzymes:

    * CK-MM, found mostly in skeletal muscles
    * CK-MB, found mostly in the heart muscle
    * CK-BB, found mostly in brain tissue

A small amount of CK in the blood is normal. Higher amounts can mean a health
problem. Depending on the type and level of CK found, it can mean you have
damage or disease of the skeletal muscles, heart, or brain.

Other names: CK, total CK, creatine phosphokinase, CPK

## What is it used for?

A CK test is most often used to diagnose and monitor muscular injuries and
diseases. These diseases include:

    * Muscular dystrophy, a rare inherited disease that causes weakness, breakdown, and loss of function of skeletal muscles. It mostly occurs in males.
    * Rhabdomyolis, a rapid breakdown of muscle tissue. It can be caused by a serious injury, muscle disease, or other disorder.

The test can be used to help diagnose a heart attack, though not very often.
CK testing used to be a common test for heart attacks. But another test,
called troponin, has been found to be better at detecting heart damage.

## Why do I need a CK test?

You may need a CK test if you have symptoms of a muscular disorder. These
include:

    * Muscle pain and/or cramps
    * Muscle weakness
    * Balance problems
    * Numbness or tingling

You may also need this test if you had a muscle injury or stroke. CK levels
may not peak until up to two days after certain injuries, so you may need to
be tested a few times. This test can help show if you have damage to your
heart or other muscles.

## What happens during a CK test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for a CK test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

If your results show you have a higher than normal level of CK, it may mean
you have an injury or disease of the muscles, heart, or brain. To get more
information, your provider may order tests to check the levels of specific CK
enzymes:

    * If you have higher than normal CK-MM enzymes, it may mean you have a muscle injury or disease, such as muscular dystrophy or rhabdomyolis.
    * If you have higher than normal CK-MB enzymes, it may mean you have an inflammation of the heart muscle or are having or recently had a heart attack.
    * If you have higher than normal CK-BB enzymes, it may mean you have had a stroke or brain injury.

Other conditions that can cause higher than normal CK levels include:

    * Blood clots
    * Infections
    * Hormonal disorders, including disorders of the thyroid and adrenal glands
    * Lengthy surgery
    * Certain medicines
    * Strenuous exercise

If you have questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a CK test?

Other blood tests, such as an electrolyte panel and kidney function tests, may
be ordered along with a CK test.

## References

    1. Cedars-Sinai [Internet]. Los Angeles: Cedars-Sinai; c2019. Neuromuscular Disorders [cited 2019 June 12]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.cedars-sinai.edu/Patients/Health-Conditions/Neuromuscular-Disorders.aspx
    2. KidsHealth from Nemours [Internet]. The Nemours Foundation; c1995-2019. Your Muscles; [cited 2019 Jun 19]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://kidshealth.org/en/kids/muscles.html
    3. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Creatine Kinase (CK) [updated 2019 May 3; cited 2019 Jun 12]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/creatine-kinase-ck
    4. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2019. Tests for Musculoskeletal Disorders [updated 2017 Dec; cited 2019 Jun 12]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/bone,-joint,-and-muscle-disorders/diagnosis-of-musculoskeletal-disorders/tests-for-musculoskeletal-disorders?query=creatine%20kinase
    5. Muscular Dystrophy Association [Internet]. Chicago: Muscular Dystrophy Association; c2019. Simply Stated: The Creatine Kinase Test; 2000 Jan 31 [cited 2019 Jun 12]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mda.org/quest/article/simply-stated-the-creatine-kinase-test
    6. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2019 Jun 12]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    7. National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Muscular Dystrophy: Hope Through Research [updated 2019 May 7; cited 2019 Jun 12]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.ninds.nih.gov/Disorders/Patient-Caregiver-Education/Hope-Through-Research/Muscular-Dystrophy-Hope-Through-Research
    8. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Creatine phosphokinase test: Overview [updated 2019 Jun 12; cited 2019 Jun 12]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/creatine-phosphokinase-test
    9. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Creatine Kinase (Blood) [cited 2019 Jun 12]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?ContentTypeID=167&ContentID=creatine_kinase_blood
    10. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Creatine Kinase: Test Overview [updated 2018 Jun 25; cited 2019 Jun 12]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/creatine-kinase/abq5121.html
    11. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Creatine Kinase: Why It Is Done [updated 2018 Jun 25; cited 2019 Jun 12]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/creatine-kinase/abq5121.html#abq5123

## Related Health Topics

    * Heart Attack
    * Muscle Disorders
    * Muscular Dystrophy

## Related Lab Test Information

    * BUN (Blood Urea Nitrogen)
    * Electrocardiogram
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

