Link: https://medlineplus.gov/bursitis.html    
                                Description: Bursitis is inflammation of fluid sacs between your joints. Bursitis symptoms include pain and swelling. Learn about how to relieve bursitis symptoms.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Bursitis

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/bursitis.html

#  Bursitis

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Diagnosis and Tests
  * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

  * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

  * No links available

### Research

  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Teenagers
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

A bursa is a small, fluid-filled sac that acts as a cushion between a bone and
other moving parts, such as muscles, tendons, or skin. Bursitis occurs when a
bursa becomes inflamed. People get bursitis by overusing a joint. It can also
be caused by an injury. It usually occurs at the knee or elbow. Kneeling or
leaning your elbows on a hard surface for a long time can make bursitis start.
Doing the same kinds of movements every day or putting stress on joints
increases your risk.

Symptoms of bursitis include pain and swelling. Your doctor will diagnose
bursitis with a physical exam and tests such as x-rays and MRIs. He or she may
also take fluid from the swollen area to be sure the problem isn't an
infection.

Treatment of bursitis includes rest, pain medicines, or ice. If there is no
improvement, your doctor may inject a drug into the area around the swollen
bursa. If the joint still does not improve after 6 to 12 months, you may need
surgery to repair damage and relieve pressure on the bursa.

NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases

## Start Here

  * Beating Bursitis: Take Care of Your Joint Cushions ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
  * Bursitis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases) Also in Spanish
  * Tendinitis and Bursitis (American College of Rheumatology) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Musculoskeletal Ultrasound (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

  * Joint and Soft Tissue Injections (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
  * Joint Injection/Aspiration (American College of Rheumatology) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

  * Bursitis of the Hip (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
  * Elbow (Olecranon) Bursitis (American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons)
  * Knee Bursitis (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Tuina for periarthritis of shoulder: A systematic review protocol.
  * Article: No attributable effects of PRP on greater trochanteric pain syndrome.
  * Article: Intra-Articular versus Subacromial Corticosteroid Injection for the Treatment of Adhesive Capsulitis:...
  * Bursitis -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

  * American College of Rheumatology
  * National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

  * Bursitis (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

  * Bursitis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Bursitis of the heel (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Trochanteric bursitis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Bursitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bursitis.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Bursitis
  * Bursitis of the heel
  * Trochanteric bursitis

## Related Health Topics

  * Elbow Injuries and Disorders
  * Hip Injuries and Disorders
  * Knee Injuries and Disorders
  * Tendinitis

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Bursitis is the National
Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 30 August 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

