Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/free-light-chains/    
                                Description: Light chains are proteins that link up with other proteins called heavy chains to form antibodies. Unlinked light chains are sent into the bloodstream and are known as free light chains. Abnormal levels of free light chains in the blood can be a sign of multiple myeloma or another serious disorder. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Free Light Chains

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/free-light-chains/

# Free Light Chains

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a free light chains test?

Light chains are proteins made by plasma cells, a type of white blood cell.
Plasma cells also make immunoglobulins (antibodies). Immunoglobulins help
protect the body against illness and infections. Immunoglobulins are formed
when light chains link up with heavy chains, another type of protein. When
light chains link up with heavy chains, they are known as _bound_ light
chains.

Normally, plasma cells make a small amount of extra light chains that don't
bind with heavy chains. They are instead released into the bloodstream. These
unlinked chains are known as _free_ light chains.

There are two types of light chains: lambda and kappa light chains. A free
light chains test measures the amount of lambda and kappa free light chains in
the blood. If the amount of free light chains is higher or lower than normal,
it can mean you have a disorder of the plasma cells. These include multiple
myeloma, a cancer of plasma cells, and amyloidosis, a condition that causes a
dangerous buildup of proteins in different organs and tissues.

Other names: free kappa/lambda ratio, kappa/lambda quantitative free light,
freelite, kappa and lambda free light chains, immunoglobulin free light chains

## What is it used for?

A free light chains test is used to help diagnose or monitor plasma cell
disorders.

## Why do I need a free light chains test?

You may need this test if you have symptoms of a plasma cell disorder.
Depending on which plasma disorder you may have and which organs are affected,
your symptoms may include:

    * Bone pain
    * Fatigue
    * Numbness or tingling in arms and legs
    * Tongue swelling
    * Purple spots on the skin

## What happens during a free light chains test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for a free light chains test.

## Are there any risks to a free light chains test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

Your results will show amounts for lambda and kappa free light chains. It will
also provide a comparison between the two. If your results were not normal, it
may mean you have a plasma cell disorder, such as:

    * Multiple myeloma
    * Amyloidosis
    * MGUS (monoclonal gammopathy of unknown significance). This is a condition in which you have abnormal protein levels. It often causes no problems or symptoms, but sometimes it develops into multiple myeloma.
    * Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia (WM), a cancer of the white blood cells. It's a type of non-Hodgkin lymphoma.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a free light chains test?

A free light chains test is often ordered with other tests, including an
immunofixation blood test, to help confirm or rule out a diagnosis.

## References

    1. American Cancer Society [Internet]. Atlanta: American Cancer Society Inc.; c2019. Tests to Find Multiple Myeloma; [updated 2018 Feb 28; cited 2019 Dec 21]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.org/cancer/multiple-myeloma/detection-diagnosis-staging/testing.html
    2. American Cancer Society [Internet]. Atlanta: American Cancer Society Inc.; c2019. What is Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia?; [updated 2018 Jul 29; cited 2019 Dec 21]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.org/cancer/waldenstrom-macroglobulinemia/about/what-is-wm.html
    3. American Society of Hematology [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Society of Hematology; c2019. Myeloma; [cited 2019 Dec 21]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.hematology.org/Patients/Cancers/Myeloma.aspx
    4. International Myeloma Foundation [Internet]. North Hollywood (CA): International Myeloma Foundation; Understanding Freelite and Hevylite Tests; [cited 2019 Dec 21]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.myeloma.org/sites/default/files/resource/u-freelite_hevylite.pdf
    5. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Serum Free Light Chains; [updated 2019 Oct 24; cited 2019 Dec 21]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/serum-free-light-chains
    6. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS): Symptoms and causes; 2019 May 21; [cited 2019 Dec 21]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/mgus/symptoms-causes/syc-20352362
    7. Mayo Clinic: Mayo Medical Laboratories [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1995â2019. Test ID: FLCP: Immunoglobulin Free Light Chains, Serum: Clinical and Interpretative; [cited 2019 Dec 21; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayocliniclabs.com/test-catalog/Clinical+and+Interpretive/84190
    8. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Plasma Cell Neoplasms (Including Multiple Myeloma) Treatment (PDQÂ®)âPatient Version; [updated 2019 Nov 8; cited 2019 Dec 21]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/types/myeloma/patient/myeloma-treatment-pdq
    9. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests; [cited 2019 Dec 21]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    10. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Free Light Chains (Blood); [cited 2019 Dec 21]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid=serum_free_light_chains

## Related Health Topics

    * Amyloidosis
    * Cancer
    * Multiple Myeloma

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Bone Marrow Tests
    * Globulin Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Immunofixation (IFE) Blood Test
    * Immunoglobulins Blood Test

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 20 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

