Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/reticulocyte-count/    
                                Description: A reticulocyte count measures the number of reticulocytes in the blood. Reticulocytes are red blood cells that are still developing. They are made in the bone marrow and sent into the bloodstream. If the count is too high or too low, it can indicate anemia or other health problems. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Reticulocyte Count

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/reticulocyte-count/

# Reticulocyte Count

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a reticulocyte count?

Reticulocytes are red blood cells that are still developing. They are also
known as immature red blood cells. Reticulocytes are made in the bone marrow
and sent into the bloodstream. About two days after they form, they develop
into mature red blood cells. These red blood cells move oxygen from your lungs
to every cell in your body.

A reticulocyte count (retic count) measures the number of reticulocytes in the
blood. If the count is too high or too low, it can mean a serious health
problem, including anemia and disorders of the bone marrow, liver, and
kidneys.

Other names: retic count, reticulocyte percent, reticulocyte index,
reticulocyte production index, RPI

## What is it used for?

A reticulocyte count is most often used to:

    * Diagnose specific types of anemia. Anemia is a condition in which your blood has a lower than normal amount of red blood cells. There are several different forms and causes of anemia.
    * See if treatment for anemia is working
    * See if bone marrow is producing the right amount of blood cells
    * Check bone marrow function after chemotherapy or a bone marrow transplant

## Why do I need a reticulocyte count?

You may need this test if:

    * Other blood tests show your red blood cell levels are not normal. These tests may include a complete blood count, hemoglobin test, and/or hematocrit test.
    * You are being treated with radiation or chemotherapy
    * You recently received a bone marrow transplant

You may also need this test if you have symptoms of anemia. These include:

    * Fatigue
    * Weakness
    * Shortness of breath
    * Pale skin
    * Cold hands and/or feet

Sometimes new babies are tested for a condition called hemolytic disease of
the newborn. This condition happens when a mother's blood is not compatible
with her unborn baby. This is known as Rh incompatibility. It causes the
mother's immune system to attack the baby's red blood cells. Most pregnant
women are tested for Rh incompatibility as part of routine prenatal screening.

## What happens during a reticulocyte count?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

To test a newborn, a health care provider will clean your baby's heel with
alcohol and poke the heel with a small needle. The provider will collect a few
drops of blood and put a bandage on the site.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for a reticulocyte count test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

After a blood test, you may have slight pain or bruising at the spot where the
needle was put in, but most symptoms go away quickly.

There is very little risk to your baby with a needle stick test. Your baby may
feel a little pinch when the heel is poked, and a small bruise may form at the
site. This should go away quickly.

## What do the results mean?

If your results show a higher than normal amount of reticulocytes
(reticulocytosis), it may mean:

    * You have **hemolytic anemia** , a type of anemia in which red blood cells are destroyed faster than the bone marrow can replace them.
    * Your baby has **hemolytic disease of the newborn** , a condition that limits the ability of a baby's blood to carry oxygen to organs and tissues.

If your results show a lower than normal amount of reticulocytes, it may mean
you have:

    * **Iron deficiency anemia** , a type of anemia that happens when you don't have enough iron in your body.
    * **Pernicious anemia** , a type of anemia caused by not getting enough of certain B vitamins (B12 and folate) in your diet, or when your body can't absorb enough B vitamins.
    * **Aplastic anemia**, a type of anemia that happens when the bone marrow isn't able to make enough blood cells.
    * **Bone marrow failure** , which may be caused by an infection or cancer.
    * **Kidney disease**
    * **Cirrhosis**, scarring of the liver

These test results are often compared with results of other blood tests. If
you have questions about your results or your child's results, talk to your
health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a reticulocyte count?

If your test results were not normal, it doesn't always mean you have anemia
or other health problems. Reticulocyte counts are often higher during
pregnancy. Also you may have a temporary increase in your count if you move to
a location with a high altitude. The count should return to normal once your
body adjusts to the lower oxygen levels that happen in higher altitude
environments.

## References

    1. American Society of Hematology [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Society of Hematology; c2019. Anemia; [cited 2019 Nov 23]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://www.hematology.org/Patients/Anemia
    2. Children's Hospital of Philadelphia [Internet]. Philadelphia: The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia; c2019. Hemolytic Disease of the Newborn; [cited 2019 Nov 23]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.chop.edu/conditions-diseases/hemolytic-disease-newborn
    3. Kids Health from Nemours [Internet]. Jacksonville (FL): The Nemours Foundation; c1995â2019. Blood Test: Reticulocyte Count; [cited 2019 Nov 23]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://kidshealth.org/en/parents/reticulocyte.html
    4. Kids Health from Nemours [Internet]. Jacksonville (FL): The Nemours Foundation; c1995â2019. Anemia; [cited 2019 Nov 23]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://kidshealth.org/en/parents/anemia.html
    5. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Anemia; [updated 2019 Oct 28; cited 2019 Nov 23]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/anemia
    6. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Reticulocytes; [updated 2019 Sep 23; cited 2019 Nov 23]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/reticulocytes
    7. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests; [cited 2019 Nov 23]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    8. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Cirrhosis: Overview; [updated 2019 Dec 3; cited 2019 Dec23]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/cirrhosis
    9. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Reticulocyte count: Overview; [updated 2019 Nov 23; cited 2019 Nov 23]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/reticulocyte-count
    10. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Retic Count; [cited 2019 Nov 23]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid=retic_ct
    11. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Reticulocyte Count: Results; [updated 2019 Mar 28; cited 2019 Nov 23]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/reticulocyte-count/hw203366.html#hw203392
    12. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Reticulocyte Count: Test Overview; [updated 2019 Mar 28; cited 2019 Nov 23]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/reticulocyte-count/hw203366.html
    13. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Reticulocyte Count: Why It Is Done; [updated 2019 Mar 28; cited 2019 Nov 23]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/reticulocyte-count/hw203366.html#hw203373

## Related Health Topics

    * Anemia
    * Aplastic Anemia
    * Bone Marrow Diseases

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Complete Blood Count (CBC)
    * Hematocrit Test
    * Hemoglobin Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Red Blood Cell Antibody Screen

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 19 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

