Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/lactate-dehydrogenase-ldh-test/    
                                Description: This test measures the level of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) in blood or other body fluids. High levels may be a sign of tissue damage or disease. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Lactate Dehydrogenase (LDH) Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/lactate-dehydrogenase-ldh-
test/

# Lactate Dehydrogenase (LDH) Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) test?

This test measures the level of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), also known as
lactic acid dehydrogenase, in your blood or sometimes in other body fluids.
LDH is a type of protein, known as an enzyme. LDH plays an important role in
making your body's energy. It is found in almost all the body's tissues,
including those in the blood, heart, kidneys, brain, and lungs.

When these tissues are damaged, they release LDH into the bloodstream or other
body fluids. If your LDH blood or fluid levels are high, it may mean certain
tissues in your body have been damaged by disease or injury.

Other names: LD test, lactic dehydrogenase, lactic acid dehydrogenase

## What is it used for?

An LDH test is most often used to:

    * Find out if you have tissue damage
    * Monitor disorders that cause tissue damage. These include anemia, liver disease, lung disease, and some types of infections.
    * Monitor chemotherapy for certain types cancer. The test may show if treatment is working.

## Why do I need an LDH test?

You may need this test if other tests and/or your symptoms indicate you have
tissue damage or disease. Symptoms will vary depending on the type of tissue
damage you have.

You may also need an LDH test if you are currently being treated for cancer.

## What happens during an LDH test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

LDH is sometimes measured in other body fluids, including fluids in the spinal
cord, lungs, or abdomen. If you are having one of these tests, your health
care provider will give more information about the procedure.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for an LDH blood test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

Higher than normal LDH levels usually means you have some type of tissue
damage or disease. Disorders that cause high LDH levels include:

    * Anemia
    * Kidney disease
    * Liver disease
    * Muscle injury
    * Heart attack
    * Pancreatitis
    * Infections, including meningitis, encephalitis, and infectious mononucleosis (mono)
    * Certain types of cancer, including lymphoma and leukemia. A higher than normal LDH level may also mean treatment for cancer is not working.

Although the test can show if you have tissue damage or disease, it does not
show where the damage is located. If your results showed higher than normal
LDH levels, your provider may need to order more tests to make a diagnosis.
One of these tests may be an LDH isoenzyme test. An LDH isoenzyme test
measures different forms of LDH. It can help your provider find out about the
location, type, and severity of tissue damage.

If you have questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## References

    1. Kids Health from Nemours [Internet]. Jacksonville (FL): The Nemours Foundation; c1995â2019. Blood Test: Lactate Dehydrogenase [cited 2019 Jul 1]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://kidshealth.org/en/parents/test-ldh.html
    2. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) [updated 2017 Nov 30; cited 2019 Jul 1]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/glossary/cerebrospinal
    3. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Lactate Dehydrogenase (LD) [updated 2018 Dec 20; cited 2019 Jul 1]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/lactate-dehydrogenase-ld
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Meningitis and Encephalitis [updated 2018 Feb 2; cited 2019 Jul 1]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/meningitis-and-encephalitis
    5. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Peritoneal Fluid Analysis [updated 2019 May 13; cited 2019 Jul 1]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/peritoneal-fluid-analysis
    6. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Pleural Fluid Analysis [updated 2019 May 13; cited 2019 Jul 1]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/pleural-fluid-analysis
    7. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: tissue [cited 2019 Jul 1]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/search?contains=false&q=tissue
    8. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2019 Jul 1]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    9. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Lactic Acid Dehydrogenase (Blood) [cited 2019 Jul 1]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid=lactic_acid_dehydrogenase_blood
    10. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Lactate dehydrogenase test: Overview [updated 2019 Jul 1; cited 2019 Jul 1]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/lactate-dehydrogenase-test
    11. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Lactic Acid Dehydrogenase (LDH): Exam Overview [updated 2018 Jun 25; cited 2019 Jul 1]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/testdetail/lactic-dehydrogenase-ldh/tv6985.html#tv6986

## Related Health Topics

    * Anemia
    * Bacterial Infections
    * Cancer Chemotherapy
    * Encephalitis
    * Infectious Mononucleosis
    * Kidney Diseases
    * Liver Diseases
    * Lung Diseases
    * Meningitis

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) Analysis
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Lactate Dehydrogenase (LDH) Isoenzymes Test

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 13 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

