Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/smooth-muscle-antibody-sma-test/    
                                Description: This test looks for smooth muscle antibodies (SMAs) in the blood. Normally, antibodies fight foreign substances. SMAs attack healthy tissues in the liver instead. SMAs in the blood are a sign of autoimmune hepatitis. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Smooth Muscle Antibody (SMA) Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/smooth-muscle-antibody-
sma-test/

# Smooth Muscle Antibody (SMA) Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a smooth muscle antibody (SMA) test?

This test looks for smooth muscle antibodies (SMAs) in the blood. A smooth
muscle antibody (SMA) is a type of antibody known as an autoantibody.
Normally, your immune system makes antibodies to attack foreign substances
like viruses and bacteria. An autoantibody attacks the body's own cells and
tissues by mistake. SMAs attack smooth muscle tissues in the liver and other
parts of the body.

If SMAs are found in your blood, it is likely you have autoimmune hepatitis.
Autoimmune hepatitis is a disease in which the immune system attacks liver
tissues. There are two types of autoimmune hepatitis:

    *  **Type 1** , the most common form of the disease. Type 1 affects more women than men. It is also more common in people who also have another autoimmune disorder.
    *  **Type 2** , a less common form of the disease. Type 2 mostly affects girls between the ages of 2 and 14.

Autoimmune hepatitis can be managed with medicines that suppress the immune
system. Treatment is more effective when the disorder is found early. Without
treatment, autoimmune hepatitis can cause serious health problems, including
cirrhosis and liver failure.

Other names: anti-smooth muscle antibody, ASMA, actin antibody, ACTA

## What is it used for?

An SMA test is primarily used to diagnose autoimmune hepatitis. It is also
used to find out if the disorder is type 1 or type 2.

SMA tests are also often used along with other tests to help confirm or rule
out a diagnosis of autoimmune hepatitis. These other tests include:

    *  **A test for F-actin antibodies.** F-actin is a protein found in smooth muscle tissues of the liver and other parts of the body. F-actin antibodies attack these healthy tissues.
    *  **ANA (antinuclear antibody) test**. ANAs are antibodies that attack the nucleus (center) of certain healthy cells.
    *  **ALT** **Â (alanine transaminase) and** **AST** **(aspartate aminotransferase) tests.** ALT and AST are two enzymes made by the liver.

## Why do I need an SMA test?

You may need this test if you or your child has symptoms of autoimmune
hepatitis. These include:

    * Fatigue
    * Jaundice (a condition that causes your skin and eyes to turn yellow)
    * Abdominal pain
    * Joint pain
    * Nausea
    * Skin rashes
    * Loss of appetite
    * Dark-colored urine

## What happens during an SMA test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for an SMA test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

If your results show a high amount of SMA antibodies, it probably means you
have the type 1 form of autoimmune hepatitis. A lower amount may mean you have
the type 2 form of the disease.

If no SMAs were found, it means your liver symptoms are being caused by
something different than autoimmune hepatitis. Your health care provider will
need to order more tests to make a diagnosis.

If you have questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about an SMA test?

If your results showed that you or your child has SMA antibodies, your
provider may order a liver biopsy to confirm a diagnosis of autoimmune
hepatitis. A biopsy is a procedure that removes a small sample of tissue for
testing.

## References

    1. American Liver Foundation. [Internet]. New York: American Liver Foundation; c2017. Autoimmune Hepatitis [cited 2019 Aug 19]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://liverfoundation.org/for-patients/about-the-liver/diseases-of-the-liver/autoimmune-hepatitis/#information-for-the-newly-diagnosed
    2. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Antinuclear Antibody (ANA) [updated 2019 Mar 5; cited 2019 Aug 19]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/antinuclear-antibody-ana
    3. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Autoantibodies [updated 2019 May 28; cited 2019 Aug 19]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/autoantibodies
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Smooth Muscle Antibody (SMA) and F-actin Antibody [updated 2019 May 13; cited 2019 Aug 19]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/smooth-muscle-antibody-sma-and-f-actin-antibody
    5. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. Autoimmune hepatitis: Symptoms and causes; 2018 Sep 12 [cited 2019 Aug 19]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/autoimmune-hepatitis/symptoms-causes/syc-20352153
    6. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: biopsy [cited 2019 Aug 19]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/search?contains=false&q=biopsy
    7. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2019 Aug 19]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    8. National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Autoimmune Diseases [cited 2019 Aug 19]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.niams.nih.gov/health-topics/autoimmune-diseases
    9. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Definition and Facts for Autoimmune Hepatitis; 2018 May [cited 2019 Aug 19]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/liver-disease/autoimmune-hepatitis/definition-facts
    10. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Diagnosis of Autoimmune Hepatitis; 2018 May [cited 2019 Aug 19]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/liver-disease/autoimmune-hepatitis/diagnosis
    11. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Symptoms and Causes of Autoimmune Hepatitis; 2018 May [cited 2019 Aug 19]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/liver-disease/autoimmune-hepatitis/symptoms-causes
    12. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Anti-smooth muscle antibody: Overview [updated 2019 Aug 19; cited 2019 Aug 19]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/anti-smooth-muscle-antibody
    13. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Autoimmune hepatitis: Overview [updated 2019 Aug 19; cited 2019 Aug 19]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/autoimmune-hepatitis
    14. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Autoimmune Hepatitis [cited 2019 Aug 19]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=85&contentid=P00657
    15. Zeman MV, Hirschfield GM. Autoantibodies and liver disease: Uses and abuses. Can J Gastroenterol [Internet]. 2010 Apr [cited 2019 Aug 19]; 24(4):225â31. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2864616

## Related Health Topics

    * Autoimmune Diseases
    * Cirrhosis
    * Hepatitis
    * Immune System and Disorders
    * Liver Diseases

## Related Lab Test Information

    * ALT Blood Test
    * ANA (Antinuclear Antibody) Test
    * AST Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

