Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/pleural-fluid-analysis/    
                                Description: A pleural fluid analysis is a group of tests that look for the cause of pleural effusion. Pleural effusion is a buildup of fluid in the lungs that makes it hard to breathe. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Pleural Fluid Analysis

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/pleural-fluid-analysis/

# Pleural Fluid Analysis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a pleural fluid analysis?

Pleural fluid is a liquid that is located between the layers of the pleura.
The pleura is a two-layer membrane that covers the lungs and lines the chest
cavity. The area that contains pleural fluid is known as the pleural space.
Normally, there is a small amount of pleural fluid in the pleural space. The
fluid keeps the pleura moist and reduces friction between the membranes when
you breathe.

Sometimes too much fluid builds up in the pleural space. This is known as
pleural effusion. Pleural effusion prevents the lungs from fully inflating,
making it hard to breathe. A pleural fluid analysis is a group of tests that
look for the cause of pleural effusion.

Other names: pleural fluid aspiration

## What is it used for?

A pleural fluid analysis is used to find the cause of pleural effusion. There
are two main types of pleural effusion:

    *  **Transudate** , which happens when there is an imbalance of pressure in certain blood vessels. This causes extra fluid to leak into the pleural space. Transudate pleural effusion is most often caused by heart failure or cirrhosis.
    *  **Exudate** , which happens when there is an injury or inflammation of the pleura. This can make excess fluid leak out of certain blood vessels. Exudate pleural effusion has many causes. These include infections such as pneumonia, cancer, kidney disease, and autoimmune diseases. It commonly affects only one side of the chest.

To help figure out which type of pleural effusion you have, your health care
provider may use a method known as Light's criteria. Light's criteria is a
calculation that compares some of the findings of your pleural fluid analysis
with the results of one or more protein blood tests.

It's important to find out which type of pleural effusion you have, so you can
get the right treatment.

## Why do I need a pleural fluid analysis?

You may need this test if you have symptoms of pleural effusion. These
include:

    * Chest pain
    * Dry, nonproductive cough (a cough that doesn't bring up mucus)
    * Trouble breathing
    * Fatigue

Some people with pleural effusion don't have symptoms right away. But your
provider may order this test if you've had a chest x-ray for another reason,
and it shows signs of pleural effusion.

## What happens during a pleural fluid analysis?

Your health care provider will need to remove some pleural fluid from your
pleural space. This is done through a procedure called thoracentesis. The
procedure may be done in a doctor's office or hospital. During the procedure:

    * You will need to take off most of your clothes and then put on a paper or cloth gown to cover yourself.
    * You will sit on a hospital bed or chair, with your arms resting on a padded table. This puts your body in the right position for the procedure.
    * Your provider will clean an area on your back with an antiseptic solution.
    * Your provider will inject a numbing medicine into your skin, so you won't feel any pain during the procedure.
    * Once the area is completely numb, your provider will insert a needle in your back between the ribs. The needle will go into the pleural space. Your provider may use ultrasound imaging to help find the best spot to insert the needle.
    * You may feel some pressure as the needle goes in.
    * Your provider will withdraw fluid into the needle.
    * You may be asked to hold your breath or breathe out deeply at certain times during the procedure.
    * When enough fluid has been removed, the needle will be taken out and the procedure area will be bandaged.

Blood tests for certain proteins are used to calculate Light's criteria. So
you may also get a blood test.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for a thoracentesis or a blood test.
But your provider may order a chest x-ray before the procedure.

## Are there any risks to the test?

Thoracentesis is a generally safe procedure. Risks are usually minor and may
include pain and bleeding at the procedure site.

Serious complications are uncommon, and may include a collapsed lung or
pulmonary edema, a condition in which too much pleural fluid is removed. Your
provider may order a chest x-ray after the procedure to check for
complications.

## What do the results mean?

Your results can show whether you have a transudate or exudate type of pleural
effusion. Transudate pleural effusions are most often caused by heart failure
or cirrhosis. Exudate effusions may be caused by a number of different
diseases and conditions. Once the type of pleural effusion has been
determined, your provider will likely order more tests to make a specific
diagnosis.

If you have questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a pleural fluid analysis?

Your pleural fluid results may be compared with other tests, including tests
for glucose and for albumin, a protein made by the liver. The comparisons may
be used as part of Light's criteria to help figure out what kind of pleural
effusion you have.

## References

    1. Cleveland Clinic [Internet]. Cleveland (OH): Cleveland Clinic; c2019. Pleural Effusion Causes, Signs and Treatment [cited 2019 Aug 2]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/diseases/17373-pleural-effusion-causes-signs--treatment
    2. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Pleural Fluid Aspiration; p. 420.
    3. Karkhanis VS, Joshi JM. Pleural effusion: diagnosis, treatment, and management. Open Access Emerg Med. [Internet]. 2012 Jun 22 [cited 2019 Aug 2]; 4:31â52. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4753987
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Albumin [updated 2019 Apr 29; cited 2019 Aug 2]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/albumin
    5. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Pleural Fluid Analysis [updated 2019 May 13; cited 2019 Aug 2]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/pleural-fluid-analysis
    6. Light RW. The Light Criteria. Clin Chest Med [Internet]. 2013 Mar [cited 2019 Aug 2]; 34(1):21â26. Available from: https://www.chestmed.theclinics.com/article/S0272-5231(12)00124-4/fulltext
    7. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2019 Aug 2]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    8. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Pleurisy and Other Pleural Disorders [cited 2019 Aug 2]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/pleurisy-and-other-pleural-disorders
    9. Porcel JM, Light RW. Diagnostic Approach to Pleural Effusion in Adults. Am Fam Physician [Internet]. 2006 Apr 1 [cited 2019 Aug1]; 73(7):1211â1220. Available from: https://www.aafp.org/afp/2006/0401/p1211.html
    10. Porcel Perez JM. The ABC of pleural fluid. Seminars of the Spanish Rheumatology Foundation [Internet]. 2010 Apr-Jun [cited 2019 Aug1]; 11(2): 77â82. Available from: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S1577356610000199?via%3Dihub
    11. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Pleural fluid analysis: Overview [updated 2019 Aug 2; cited 2019 Aug 2]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/pleural-fluid-analysis
    12. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Thoracentesis: Overview [updated 2019 Aug 2; cited 2019 Aug 2]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/thoracentesis
    13. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Thoracentesis [cited 2019 Aug 2]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=92&contentid=P07761
    14. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Thoracentesis: How It is Done [updated 2018 Sep 5; cited 2019 Aug 2]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/thoracentesis/hw233202.html#aa21788
    15. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Thoracentesis: Results [updated 2018 Sep 5; cited 2019 Aug 2]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/thoracentesis/hw233202.html#aa21807
    16. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Thoracentesis: Risks [updated 2018 Sep 5; cited 2019 Aug 2]; [about 7 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/thoracentesis/hw233202.html#aa21799
    17. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Thoracentesis: Test Overview [updated 2018 Sep 5; cited 2019 Aug 2]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/thoracentesis/hw233202.html

## Related Health Topics

    * Breathing Problems
    * Cirrhosis
    * Heart Failure
    * Lung Diseases
    * Pleural Disorders

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Albumin Blood Test
    * Blood Glucose Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Lactate Dehydrogenase (LDH) Test

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

