Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/triiodothyronine-t3-tests/    
                                Description: This test measures the level of triiodothyronine (T3) in the blood. T3 is a hormone made by the thyroid. The test is most often used to diagnose hyperthyroidism, a disease in which the body makes too much thyroid hormone. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Triiodothyronine (T3) Tests

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/triiodothyronine-t3-tests/

# Triiodothyronine (T3) Tests

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a triiodothyronine (T3) test?

This test measures the level of triiodothyronine (T3) in your blood. T3 is one
of two major hormones made by your thyroid, a small, butterfly-shaped gland
located near the throat. The other hormone is called thyroxine (T4.) T3 and T4
work together to regulate how your body uses energy. These hormones also play
an important role in controlling your weight, body temperature, muscle
strength, and nervous system.

The T3 hormone comes in two forms:

    * Bound T3, which attaches to protein
    * Free T3, which does not attach to anything

A test that measures both bound and free T3 is called a total T3 test. Another
test called free T3 just measures free T3. Either test may be used to check T3
levels. If T3 levels are not normal, it can be a sign of thyroid disease.

Other names: thyroid function test; total triiodothyronine, free
triiodothyronine, FT3

## What is it used for?

A T3 test is most often used to diagnose hyperthyroidism, a condition in which
the body makes too much thyroid hormone.

T3 tests are frequently ordered with T4 and TSH (thyroid stimulating hormone)
tests. A T3 test may also be used to monitor treatment for thyroid disease.

## Why do I need a T3 test?

You may need a T3 test if you have symptoms of hyperthyroidism. These include:

    * Anxiety
    * Weight loss
    * Tremors in the hands
    * Increased heart rate
    * Bulging of the eyes
    * Trouble sleeping
    * Fatigue
    * Low tolerance for heat
    * More frequent bowel movements

## What happens during a T3 test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for a T3 blood test. Your health care
provider will let you know if you need to stop taking any medicines before
your test. Certain medicines can raise or lower T3 levels.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

If your results show high total T3 levels or high free T3 levels, it may mean
you have hyperthyroidism. Low T3 levels may mean you have hypothyroidism, a
condition in which your body doesn't make enough thyroid hormone.

T3 test results are often compared with T4 and TSH test results to help
diagnose thyroid disease.

If you have questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a T3 test?

Thyroid changes can happen during pregnancy. These changes are usually not
serious, and most pregnant women don't need T3 testing. But your health care
provider may order a T3 test during pregnancy if you have:

    * Symptoms of thyroid disease
    * A history of thyroid disease
    * An autoimmune disease
    * A family history of thyroid disease

## References

    1. American Thyroid Association [Internet]. Falls Church (VA): American Thyroid Association; c2019. Thyroid Function Tests; [cited 2019 Sep 29]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.thyroid.org/thyroid-function-tests
    2. Empower [Internet]. Jacksonville (FL): American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists; The Thyroid and Pregnancy; [cited 2019 Sep 29]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.empoweryourhealth.org/endocrine-conditions/thyroid/about_thyroid_and_pregnancy
    3. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. T3 (Free and Total); [updated 2019 Sep 20; cited 2019 Sep 29]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/t3-free-and-total
    4. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests; [cited 2019 Sep 29]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    5. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Hyperthyroidism (Overactive Thyroid); 2016 Aug [cited 2019 Sep 29]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/endocrine-diseases/hyperthyroidism
    6. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Thyroid Tests; 2017 May [cited 2019 Sep 29]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/diagnostic-tests/thyroid
    7. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Free and Bound Triiodothyronine (Blood); [cited 2019 Sep 29]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?ContentTypeID=167&ContentID=t3_free_and_bound_blood
    8. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. T3 Test: Overview; [updated 2019 Sep 29; cited 2019 Sep 29]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/t3-test
    9. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Thyroid Hormone Tests: Test Overview; [updated 2018 Nov 6; cited 2019 Sep 29]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/thyroid-hormone-tests/hw27377.html

## Related Health Topics

    * Hormones
    * Hyperthyroidism
    * Hypothyroidism
    * Thyroid Diseases
    * Thyroid Tests

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Thyroid Antibodies
    * Thyroxine (T4) Test
    * TSH (Thyroid-stimulating hormone) Test

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 19 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

