Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/mononucleosis-mono-tests/    
                                Description: A mononucleosis (mono) test is used to help diagnose mono, an infectious disease usually caused by the Epstein-Barr virus. Mono is most common in teens and young adults. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Mononucleosis (Mono) Tests

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/mononucleosis-mono-tests/

# Mononucleosis (Mono) Tests

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What are mononucleosis (mono) tests?

Mononucleosis (mono) is an infectious disease caused by a virus. The Epstein-
Barr virus (EBV) is the most common cause of mono, but other viruses can also
cause the disease.

EBV is a type of herpes virus and is very common. Most Americans have been
infected with EBV by the age of 40 but may never get symptoms of mono.

Young children infected with EBV usually have mild symptoms or no symptoms at
all.

Teens and young adults, though, are more likely to get mono and experience
noticeable symptoms. In fact, at least one out of four teens and adults who
get EBV will develop mono.

Mono can cause symptoms similar to those of the flu. Mono is rarely serious,
but symptoms can linger for weeks or months. Mono is sometimes called the
kissing disease because it is spread through saliva. You can also get mono if
you share a drinking glass, food, or utensils with an a person who has mono.

Types of mono tests include:

    * **Monospot test.** This test looks for specific antibodies in the blood. These antibodies show up during or after during certain infections, including mono.
    * **EBV antibody test.** This test looks for EBV antibodies, the main cause of mono. There are different types of EBV antibodies. If certain types of antibodies are found, it may mean you were infected recently. Other types of EBV antibodies may mean you were infected in the past.

Other names: monospot test, mononuclear heterophile test, heterophile antibody
test, EBV antibody test, Epstein-Barr virus antibodies

## What are they used for?

Mono tests are used to help diagnose a mono infection. Your provider may use a
monospot to get fast results. Results are usually ready within an hour. But
this test has a high rate of false negatives. So monospot tests are often
ordered with an EVB antibody test and other tests that look for infections.
These include:

    * **Complete blood count** and/or **blood smear** , which checks for high levels of white blood cells, a sign of infection.
    * **Throat culture** , to check for strep throat, which has similar symptoms to mono. Strep throat is a bacterial infection treated with antibiotics. Antibiotics don't work on viral infections like mono.

## Why do I need a mono test?

Your health care provider may order one or more mono tests if you or your
child has symptoms of mono. Symptoms include:

    * Fever
    * Sore throat
    * Swollen glands, especially in the neck and/or armpits
    * Fatigue
    * Headache
    * Rash

## What happens during a mono test?

You will need to provide a sample of blood from your fingertip or from a vein.

**For a fingertip blood test** , a health care professional will prick your
middle or ring finger with a small needle. After wiping away the first drop of
blood, he or she will place a little tube on your finger and collect a small
amount of blood. You may feel a pinch when the needle pricks your finger.

**For a blood test from a vein** , a health care professional will take a
blood sample from a vein in your arm, using a small needle. After the needle
is inserted, a small amount of blood will be collected into a test tube or
vial. You may feel a little sting when the needle goes in or out.

Both types of tests are quick, usually taking less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't any special preparations for a fingertip blood test or blood test
from a vein.

## Are there any risks to mono tests

There is very little risk to having a fingertip blood test or blood test from
a vein. You may have slight pain or bruising at the spot where the needle was
put in, but most symptoms go away quickly.

## What do the results mean?

If monospot test results were positive, it may mean you or your child has
mono. If it was negative, but you or your child still has symptoms, your
health care provider will probably order an EBV antibody test.

If your EBV test was negative, it means you don't currently have an EBV
infection and were never infected with the virus. A negative result means your
symptoms are probably caused by another disorder.

If your EBV test was positive, it means EBV antibodies were found in your
blood. The test will also show which types of antibodies were found. This
allows your provider to find out whether you were infected recently or in the
past.

While there is no cure for mono, you can take steps to relieve symptoms. These
include:

    * Get plenty of rest
    * Drink lots of fluids
    * Suck on lozenges or hard candy to soothe a sore throat
    * Take over-the-counter relievers. But don't give aspirin to children or teens because it may cause Reye syndrome, a serious, sometimes fatal, disease that affects the brain and liver.

Mono usually goes away on its own within a few weeks. Fatigue may last a bit
longer. Health care providers recommend children avoid sports for at least a
month after symptoms have gone. This helps avoid injury to the spleen, which
may be at a higher risk for damage during and just after an active mono
infection. If you have questions about your results or treatment for mono,
talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about mono tests?

Some people think that EBV causes a disorder called chronic fatigue syndrome
(CFS). But as of now, researchers have not found any evidence to show this is
true. So monospot and EBV tests are not used to diagnose or monitor CFS.

## References

    1. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Epstein-Barr Virus and Infectious Mononucleosis: About infectious Mononucleosis; [cited 2019 Oct 14]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/epstein-barr/about-mono.html
    2. Cleveland Clinic [Internet]. Cleveland (OH): Cleveland Clinic; c2019. Mononucleosis: Overview; [cited 2019 Oct 14]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/diseases/13974-mononucleosis
    3. Familydoctor.org [Internet]. Leawood (KS): American Academy of Family Physicians; c2019. Mononucleosis (Mono); [updated 2017 Oct 24; cited 2019 Oct 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://familydoctor.org/condition/mononucleosis
    4. Kids Health from Nemours [Internet]. Jacksonville (FL): The Nemours Foundation; c1995â2019. Mononucleosis; [cited 2019 Oct 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://kidshealth.org/en/parents/mono.html
    5. Kids Health from Nemours [Internet]. Jacksonville (FL): The Nemours Foundation; c1995â2019. Reye Syndrome; [cited 2019 Oct 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://kidshealth.org/en/parents/reye.html
    6. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Mononucleosis (Mono) Test; [updated 2019 Sep 20; cited 2019 Oct 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/mononucleosis-mono-test
    7. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. Mononucleosis: Symptoms and causes; 2018 Sep 8 [cited 2019 Oct 14]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/mononucleosis/symptoms-causes/syc-20350328
    8. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests; [cited 2019 Oct 14]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    9. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. University of Florida; c2019. Epstein-Barr virus antibody test: Overview; [updated 2019 Oct 14; cited 2019 Oct 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/epstein-barr-virus-antibody-test
    10. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. University of Florida; c2019. Mononucleosis: Overview; [updated 2019 Oct 14; cited 2019 Oct 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/mononucleosis
    11. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: EBV Antibody; [cited 2019 Oct 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid=ebv_antibody
    12. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Mononucleosis (Blood); [cited 2019 Oct 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid=mononucleosis_blood
    13. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Mononucleosis Tests: How It Is Done; [updated 2019 Jun 9; cited 2019 Oct 14]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/mononucleosis-test/hw5179.html#hw5198
    14. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Mononucleosis Tests: Results; [updated 2019 Jun 9; cited 2019 Oct 14]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/mononucleosis-test/hw5179.html#hw5209
    15. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Mononucleosis Tests: Risks; [updated 2019 Jun 9; cited 2019 Oct 14]; [about 7 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/mononucleosis-test/hw5179.html#hw5205
    16. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Mononucleosis Tests: Test Overview; [updated 2019 Jun 9; cited 2019 Oct 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/mononucleosis-test/hw5179.html
    17. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Mononucleosis Tests: What To Think About; [updated 2019 Jun 9; cited 2019 Oct 14]; [about 10 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/mononucleosis-test/hw5179.html#hw5218
    18. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Mononucleosis Tests: Why It Is Done; [updated 2019 Jun 9; cited 2019 Oct 14]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/mononucleosis-test/hw5179.html#hw5193

## Related Health Topics

    * Herpes Simplex
    * Infectious Mononucleosis
    * Viral Infections

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Bacteria Culture Test
    * Blood Smear
    * Complete Blood Count (CBC)
    * Herpes (HSV) Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 19 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

