Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/trichomoniasis-test/    
                                Description: Trichomoniasis (trich) is a sexually transmitted disease (STD) caused by a parasite. This test looks for trichomoniasis parasites in your body. Trichomoniasis is rarely serious, but can put you at higher risk for other STDs. The disease can be cured with medicine. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Trichomoniasis Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/trichomoniasis-test/

# Trichomoniasis Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a trichomoniasis test?

Trichomoniasis, often called trich, is a sexually transmitted disease (STD)
caused by a parasite. A parasite is a tiny plant or animal that gets nutrients
by living off another creature. Trichomoniasis parasites are spread when an
infected person has sex with an uninfected person. The infection is more
common in women, but men can also get it. Infections usually affect the lower
genital tract. In women, that includes the vulva, vagina, and cervix. In men,
it most often infects the urethra, a tube that carries urine out of the body.

Trichomoniasis is one of the most common STDs. In the United States, it's
estimated that more than 3 million people are currently infected. Many people
with the infection don't know they have it. This test can find the parasites
in your body, even if you don't have symptoms. Trichomoniasis infections are
rarely serious, but they can increase your risk of getting or spreading other
STDs. Once diagnosed, trichomoniasis is easily cured with medicine.

Other names: T. vaginalis, trichomonas vaginalis testing, wet prep

## What is it used for?

The test is used to find out if you have been infected with the trichomoniasis
parasite. A trichomoniasis infection can put you at higher risk for different
STDs. So this test is often used along with other STD testing.

## Why do I need a trichomoniasis test?

Many people with trichomoniasis don't have any signs or symptoms. When
symptoms do happen, they usually show up within 5 to 28 days of infection.
Both men and women should get tested if they have symptoms of an infection.

Symptoms in women include:

    * Vaginal discharge that is gray-green or yellow. It is often foamy and may have a fishy smell.
    * Vaginal itching and/or irritation
    * Painful urination
    * Discomfort or pain during sexual intercourse

Men usually don't have symptoms of infection. When they do, symptoms may
include:

    * Abnormal discharge from the penis
    * Itching or irritation on the penis
    * Burning feeling after urination and/or after sex

STD testing, including a trichomoniasis test, may be recommended if you have
certain risk factors. You may be at higher risk for trichomoniasis and other
STDs if you have:

    * Sex without using a condom
    * Multiple sex partners
    * A history of other STDs

## What happens during a trichomoniasis test?

If you are a woman, your health care provider will use a small brush or swab
to collect a sample of cells from your vagina. A laboratory professional will
examine the slide under a microscope and look for parasites.

If you're a man, your health care provider may use a swab to take a sample
from your urethra. You will also probably get a urine test.

Both men and women may get a urine test. During a urine test, you will be
instructed to provide a clean catch sample: The clean catch method generally
includes the following steps:

    1. Clean your genital area with a cleansing pad given to you by your provider. Men should wipe the tip of their penis. Women should open their labia and clean from front to back.
    2. Start to urinate into the toilet.
    3. Move the collection container under your urine stream.
    4. Pass at least an ounce or two of urine into the container, which should have markings to indicate the amounts.
    5. Finish urinating into the toilet.
    6. Return the sample container as instructed by your health care provider.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for a trichomoniasis test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There are no known risks to having a trichomoniasis test.

## What do the results mean?

If your result was positive, it means you have a trichomoniasis infection.
Your provider will prescribe medicine that will treat and cure the infection.
Your sexual partner should also be tested and treated.

If your test was negative but you still have symptoms, your provider may order
another trichomoniasis test and/or other STD testing to help make a diagnosis.

If you are diagnosed with the infection, be sure to take the medicine as
prescribed. Without treatment, the infection can last for months or even
years. The medicine can cause side effects such as abdominal pain, nausea, and
vomiting. It's also very important to not drink alcohol while on this
medicine. Doing so can cause more severe side effects.

If you are pregnant and have a trichomoniasis infection, you may be at higher
risk for premature delivery and other pregnancy problems. But you should talk
to your health care provider about the risks and benefits of medicines that
treat trichomoniasis.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a trichomoniasis test?

The best way to prevent infection with trichomoniasis or other STDs is to not
have sex. If you are sexually active, you can reduce your risk of infection
by:

    * Being in a long-term relationship with one partner who has tested negative for STDs
    * Using condoms correctly every time you have sex

## References

    1. Allina Health [Internet]. Minneapolis: Allina Health; Trichomoniasis [cited 2019 Jun 1]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://account.allinahealth.org/library/content/1/1331
    2. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Parasites: About Parasites [cited 2019 Jun 1]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/parasites/about.html
    3. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Trichomoniasis: CDC Fact Sheet [cited 2019 Jun 1]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/std/trichomonas/stdfact-trichomoniasis.htm
    4. Cleveland Clinic [Internet]. Cleveland (OH): Cleveland Clinic; c2019. Trichomoniasis: Diagnosis and Tests [cited 2019 Jun 1]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/diseases/4696-trichomoniasis/diagnosis-and-tests
    5. Cleveland Clinic [Internet]. Cleveland (OH): Cleveland Clinic; c2019. Trichomoniasis: Management and Treatment [cited 2019 Jun 1]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/diseases/4696-trichomoniasis/management-and-treatment
    6. Cleveland Clinic [Internet]. Cleveland (OH): Cleveland Clinic; c2019. Trichomoniasis: Overview [cited 2019 Jun 1]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/diseases/4696-trichomoniasis
    7. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Trichomonas Testing [updated 2019 May 2; cited 2019 Jun 1]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/trichomonas-testing
    8. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. Trichomoniasis: Diagnosis and treatment; 2018 May 4 [cited 2019 Jun 1]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/trichomoniasis/diagnosis-treatment/drc-20378613
    9. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. Trichomoniasis: Symptoms and causes; 2018 May 4 [cited 2019 Jun 1]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/trichomoniasis/symptoms-causes/syc-20378609
    10. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. Urinalysis: About; 2017 Dec 28 [cited 2019 Jun 1]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/urinalysis/about/pac-20384907
    11. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2019. Trichomoniasis [updated 2018 Mar; cited 2019 Jun 1]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/infections/sexually-transmitted-diseases-stds/trichomoniasis?query=trichomoniasis
    12. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Trichomoniasis: Overview [updated 2019 Jun 1; cited 2019 Jun 1]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/trichomoniasis
    13. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Trichomoniasis: Exams and Tests [updated 2018 Sep 11; cited 2019 Jun 1]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/major/trichomoniasis/hw139874.html#hw139916
    14. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Trichomoniasis: Symptoms [updated 2018 Sep 11; cited 2019 Jun 1]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/major/trichomoniasis/hw139874.html#hw139896
    15. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Trichomoniasis: Topic Overview [updated 2018 Sep 11; cited 2019 Jun 1]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/major/trichomoniasis/hw139874.html
    16. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Trichomoniasis: Treatment Overview [updated 2018 Sep 11; cited 2019 Jun 1]; [about 9 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/major/trichomoniasis/hw139874.html#hw139933

## Related Health Topics

    * Chlamydia Infections
    * Genital Herpes
    * Gonorrhea
    * HPV
    * Parasitic Diseases
    * Pregnancy and Medicines
    * Sexually Transmitted Diseases
    * Syphilis
    * Trichomoniasis
    * Vaginitis

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Chlamydia Test
    * Gonorrhea Test
    * Herpes (HSV) Test
    * HIV Screening Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Human Papillomavirus (HPV) Test
    * Syphilis Tests

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

