Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/17-hydroxyprogesterone/    
                                Description: This test measures the amount of 17-hydroxyprogesterone (17-OHP) in the blood. High levels are a sign of congenital adrenal hyperplasia, a genetic disorder of the adrenal gland. Testing is most often done as part of a newborn screening. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

17-Hydroxyprogesterone

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/17-hydroxyprogesterone/

# 17-Hydroxyprogesterone

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a 17-hydroxyprogesterone (17-OHP) test?

This test measures the amount of 17-hydroxyprogesterone (17-OHP) in the blood.
17-OHP is a hormone made by the adrenal glands, two glands located on top of
the kidneys. The adrenal glands make several hormones, including cortisol.
Cortisol is important for maintaining blood pressure, blood sugar, and some
functions of the immune system. 17-OHP is made as part of the process of
producing cortisol.

A 17-OHP test helps diagnose a rare genetic disorder called congenital adrenal
hyperplasia (CAH). In CAH, a genetic change, known as a mutation, prevents the
adrenal gland from making enough cortisol. As the adrenal glands work harder
to make more cortisol, they produce extra 17-OHP, along with certain male sex
hormones.

CAH can cause abnormal development of sex organs and sexual characteristics.
Symptoms of the disorder range from mild to severe. If not treated, the more
severe forms of CAH can cause serious complications, including dehydration,
low blood pressure, and abnormal heartbeat (arrhythmia).

Other names: 17-OH progesterone, 17-OHP

## What is it used for?

A 17-OHP test is most often used to diagnose CAH in newborns. It may also be
used to:

    * Diagnose CAH in older children and adults who may have a milder form of the disorder. In milder CAH, symptoms may show up later in life, or sometimes not at all.
    * Monitor treatment for CAH

## Why do I need a 17-OHP test?

Your baby will need a 17-OHP test, usually within 1â2 days after birth.
17-OHP testing for CAH is now required by law as part of newborn screening. A
newborn screening is a simple blood test that checks for a variety of serious
diseases.

Older children and adults may also need testing if they have symptoms of CAH.
Symptoms will be different depending on how severe the disorder is, the age
when symptoms appear, and whether you are male or female.

Symptoms of the most severe form of the disorder usually show up within 2â3
weeks after birth.

If your baby was born outside the United States and did not get a newborn
screening, they may need testing if they have one or more of the following
symptoms:

    * Genitals that are not clearly male or female (ambiguous genitalia)
    * Dehydration
    * Vomiting and other feeding problems
    * Abnormal heart rhythms (arrhythmia)

Older children may not have symptoms until puberty. In girls, symptoms of CAH
include:

    * Irregular menstrual periods, or no periods at all
    * Early appearance of pubic and/or arm hair
    * Excessive hair on face and body
    * Deep voice
    * Enlarged clitoris

In boys, symptoms include:

    * Enlarged penis
    * Early puberty (precocious puberty)

In adult men and women, symptoms may include:

    * Infertility (the inability to get pregnant or get a partner pregnant)
    * Severe acne

## What happens during a 17-OHP test?

For a newborn screening, a health care professional will clean your baby's
heel with alcohol and poke the heel with a small needle. The provider will
collect a few drops of blood and put a bandage on the site.

During a blood test for older children and adults, a health care professional
will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm, using a small needle. After
the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood will be collected into a test
tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when the needle goes in or out. This
usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

There are no special preparations needed for a 17-OHP test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to you or your baby with a 17-OHP test. You may have
slight pain or bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most
symptoms go away quickly. Your baby may feel a little pinch when the heel is
poked, and a small bruise may form at the site. This should go away quickly.

## What do the results mean?

If results show high levels of 17-OHP, it's likely you or your child has CAH.
Usually, very high levels means a more severe form of the condition, while
moderately high levels usually means a milder form.

If you or your child is being treated for CAH, lower levels of 17-OHP may mean
the treatment is working. Treatment may include medicines to replace missing
cortisol. Sometimes surgery is done to change the appearance and function of
the genitals.

If you have questions about your results or your child's results, talk to your
health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a 17-OHP test?

If you or your child has been diagnosed with CAH, you may want to consult with
a genetic counselor, a specially trained professional in genetics. CAH is
genetic disorder in which both parents must have the genetic mutation that
causes CAH. A parent may be a carrier of the gene, which means they have the
gene but usually don't have symptoms of disease. If both parents are carriers,
each child has a 25% chance of having the condition.

## References

    1. Allina Health [Internet]. Minneapolis: Allina Health; Newborn screening tests [cited 2019 Aug 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://account.allinahealth.org/library/content/1/7257
    2. Cares Foundation [Internet]. Union (NJ): Cares Foundation; c2012. What is Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia (CAH)? [cited 2019 Aug 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.caresfoundation.org/what-is-cah
    3. Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development [Internet]. Rockville (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia (CAH): Condition Information [cited 2019 Aug 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nichd.nih.gov/health/topics/cah/conditioninfo
    4. Hormone Health Network [Internet]. Endocrine Society; c2019. Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia [updated 2018 Sep; cited 2019 Aug 17]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.hormone.org/diseases-and-conditions/congenital-adrenal-hyperplasia
    5. Kids Health from Nemours [Internet]. Jacksonville (FL): The Nemours Foundation; c1995â2019. Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia [cited 2019 Aug 17]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://kidshealth.org/en/parents/congenital-adrenal-hyperplasia.html
    6. Kids Health from Nemours [Internet]. Jacksonville (FL): The Nemours Foundation; c1995â2019. Newborn Screening Tests [cited 2019 Aug 17]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://kidshealth.org/en/parents/newborn-screening-tests.html
    7. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. 17-Hydroxyprogesterone [updated 2018 Dec 21; cited 2019 Aug 17]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/17-hydroxyprogesterone
    8. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Infertility [updated 2017 Nov 27; cited 2019 Aug 17]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/infertility
    9. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: genetic counselor [cited 2019 Aug 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/def/794108
    10. National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences: Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; 21-hydroxolase deficiency [updated 2019 Apr 11; cited 2019 Aug 17]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://rarediseases.info.nih.gov/diseases/5757/21-hydroxylase-deficiency
    11. The Magic Foundation [Internet]. Warrenville (IL): Magic Foundation; c1989â2019. Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia [cited 2019 Aug 17]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.magicfoundation.org/Growth-Disorders/Congenital-Adrenal-Hyperplasia
    12. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Newborn Screening Tests [cited 2019 Aug 17]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=90&contentid=P01967
    13. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. 17-OH progesterone: Overview [updated 2019 Aug 17; cited 2019 Aug 17]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/17-oh-progesterone
    14. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Congenital adrenal hyperplasia: Overview [updated 2019 Aug 17; cited 2019 Aug 17]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/congenital-adrenal-hyperplasia

## Related Health Topics

    * Adrenal Gland Disorders
    * Genetic Disorders
    * Hormones
    * Infertility
    * Newborn Screening
    * Polycystic Ovary Syndrome

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Anti-MÃ¼llerian Hormone Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 20 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

