Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/troponin-test/    
                                Description: A troponin test measures the level of troponin in the blood. High troponin levels may be a sign of a heart attack. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Troponin Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/troponin-test/

# Troponin Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a troponin test?

A troponin test measures the level of troponin in your blood. Troponin is a
type of protein found in the muscles of your heart. Troponin isn't normally
found in the blood. When heart muscles become damaged, troponin is sent into
the bloodstream. As heart damage increases, greater amounts of troponin are
released in the blood.

High levels of troponin in the blood may mean you are having or recently had a
heart attack. A heart attack happens when blood flow to the heart gets
blocked. This blockage can be deadly. But quick diagnosis and treatment can
save your life.

Other names: cardiac troponin I (cTnI), cardiac troponin T (cTnT), cardiac
troponin (cTN), cardiac-specific troponin I and troponin T

## What is it used for?

The test is most often used to diagnose a heart attack. It is sometimes used
to monitor angina, a condition that limits blood flow to the heart and causes
chest pain. Angina sometimes leads to a heart attack.

## Why do I need a troponin test?

You may need this test if you have been admitted to the emergency room with
symptoms of a heart attack. These symptoms include:

    * Chest pain or discomfort
    * Pain in other parts of the body, including your arm, back, jaw, or neck
    * Trouble breathing
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Fatigue
    * Dizziness
    * Sweating

After you are first tested, you will probably get retested two or more times
over the next 24 hours. This is done to see if there are any changes in your
troponin levels over time.

## What happens during a troponin test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for a troponin test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

Normal troponin levels in the blood are usually so low, they can't be found on
most blood tests. If your results show normal troponin levels for 12 hours
after chest pain has started, it's unlikely that your symptoms were caused by
a heart attack.

If even a small level of troponin is found in your blood, it may mean there is
some damage to your heart. If high levels of troponin are found in one or more
tests over time, it probably means you had a heart attack. Other reasons for
higher than normal troponin levels include:

    * Congestive heart failure
    * Kidney disease
    * Blood clot in your lungs

If you have questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a troponin test?

If you have symptoms of a heart attack at home or elsewhere, call 911
immediately. Quick medical attention could save your life.

## References

    1. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Troponin; p. 492-3.
    2. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Troponin [updated 2019 Jan 10; cited 2019 Jun 19]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/troponin
    3. Maynard SJ, Menown IB, Adgey AA. Troponin T or troponin I as cardiac markers in ischaemic heart disease. Heart [Internet] 2000 Apr [cited 2019 Jun 19]; 83(4):371-373. Available from: https://heart.bmj.com/content/83/4/371
    4. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2019 Jun 19]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    5. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Heart Attack: Know the symptoms. Take action.; 2011 Dec [cited 2019 Jun 19]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/files/docs/public/heart/heart_attack_fs_en.pdf
    6. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Signs, Symptoms, and Complications - Heart Attack - What Are the Symptoms of a Heart Attack? [cited 2019 Jun 19]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/node/4280
    7. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Troponin test: Overview [updated 2019 Jun 19; cited 2019 Jun 19]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/troponin-test
    8. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Troponin [cited 2019 Jun 19]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid=troponin
    9. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Heart Attack and Unstable Angina: Topic Overview [updated 2018 Jul 22; cited 2019 Jun 19]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/special/heart-attack-and-unstable-angina/tx2300.html

## Related Health Topics

    * Angina
    * Chest Pain
    * Emergency Medical Services
    * Heart Attack
    * Heart Diseases
    * Heart Failure

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Creatine Kinase
    * Electrocardiogram
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

