Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/obesity-screening/    
                                Description: An obesity screening uses a BMI and other tests to diagnose obesity. Obesity is a serious health problem. If you or your child is diagnosed with obesity, there are steps you can take to help reduce weight and improve health. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Obesity Screening

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/obesity-screening/

# Obesity Screening

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is obesity screening?

Obesity is the condition of having too much body fat. It's not just a matter
of appearance. Obesity can put you at risk for a variety of chronic and
serious health problems. These include:

    * Heart disease
    * Type 2 diabetes
    * High blood pressure
    * Arthritis
    * Certain types of cancer

Experts say obesity is major problem in the U.S. Today more than 30 percent of
U.S. adults and 20 percent of U.S. children have obesity. Children with
obesity are at risk for many of the same health problems as adults with
obesity.

An obesity screening may use a measurement called a BMI (body mass index) and
other tests to find out if you or your child is overweight or has obesity.
Being overweight means you have excess body weight. While not as severe as
obesity, it may also lead to serious health problems.

## What is a BMI?

A BMI (body mass index) is a calculation based on your weight and height.
While it's hard to directly measure fat on the body, a BMI can provide a good
estimate.

To measure BMI, your health care provider may use an online tool or an
equation that uses your weight and height information. You can measure your
own BMI in much the same way by using an online BMI calculator.

Your results will fall into one of these categories:

    * Below 18.5: Underweight
    * 18.5-24.9: Healthy weight
    * 25 -29.9: Overweight
    * 30 and above: Obese
    * 40 or higher: Severely obese, also known as morbidly obese

BMI is also used to diagnose obesity in children, but it is figured out
differently than in adults. Your child's health care provider will calculate
BMI based on your child's age, sex, weight, and height. He or she will compare
those numbers with the results of other children with similar characteristics.

The results will be in the form of a percentile. A percentile is a type of
comparison between an individual and a group. For example, if your child has a
BMI in the 50th percentile, it means 50 percent of children of the same age
and sex have a lower BMI. Your child's BMI will show one of the following
results:

    * Less than the 5th percentile: Underweight
    * 5th-84th percentile: Normal Weight
    * 85th-94th percentile: Overweight
    * 95th percentile and higher: Obese

## What causes obesity?

Obesity happens when you take in more calories than your body needs over a
long period of time. A variety of factors can lead to obesity. For many
people, dieting and willpower alone are not enough to control weight. Obesity
may be caused by one or more of the following:

    *  **Diet** **.** You are at a higher risk of obesity if your diet includes a lot of fast foods, packaged snacks, and sugary soft drinks.
    *  **Lack of exercise** **.** If you don't get enough physical activity to burn off what you eat, you will likely gain weight.
    *  **Family history** **.** You're more likely to become obese if close family members have obesity.
    *  **Aging.** As you get older, your muscle tissue decreases and your metabolism slows down. This can lead to weight gain, and eventually obesity, even if you stayed at a healthy weight when you were younger.
    *  **Pregnancy** **.** It's normal and healthy to gain weight during pregnancy. But if you don't lose the weight after pregnancy, it can cause long-term weight problems.
    *  **Menopause** **.** Many women gain weight after menopause. This may be caused by changes in hormone levels and/or reduction in daily activities.
    *  **Biology.** Our bodies have systems that help keep our weight at a healthy level. In some people, this system doesn't work right. This makes it especially hard to lose weight.
    *  **Hormonal disorders** **.** Certain disorders cause your body to make too much or too little of important hormones. This may lead to weight gain, and sometimes obesity.

## What is an obesity screening used for?

An obesity screening is used to find out if you or your child is at an
unhealthy weight. If the screening shows that you or your child is overweight
or has obesity, your provider will check to see if there is medical issue
causing the excess weight. Your provider will also teach you about what you
can do to reduce your weight and improve your health.

## Why do I need obesity screening?

Most adults and children over the age of 6 should be screened at least once a
year with a BMI. If your health care provider finds that you have a high or
increasing BMI, he or she can recommend steps you can take to help prevent you
from becoming overweight or obese.

## What happens during an obesity screening?

In addition to a BMI, an obesity screening may include:

    *  **A physical exam**
    *  **A measurement around your waist.** Excess fat around the waist can put you at an even higher risk for obesity-related health problems, including heart disease and type 2 diabetes.
    *  **Blood tests** to check for diabetes and/or medical conditions that may be causing weight gain.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for an obesity screening?

You may need to fast (not eat or drink) for certain types of blood tests. Your
health care provider will let you know if you need to fast and if there are
any special instructions to follow.

## Are there any risks to the screening?

There is no risk to having a BMI or a waist measurement. There is very little
risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or bruising at the spot
where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away quickly.

## What do the results mean?

The results of your BMI and waist measurement may show that you are in one of
the following categories:

    * Underweight
    * Healthy weight
    * Overweight
    * Obese
    * Severely obese

Your blood tests may show whether you have a hormonal disorder. Blood tests
may also show if you have or are at risk for diabetes.

## Is there anything else I should know about an obesity screening?

If your results show that you or your child is overweight or obese, talk to
your health care provider about treatment options. There are many ways to
treat obesity. Treatment will depend on the cause of the weight problem and
how much weight loss is recommended. Options may include:

    * Eating a healthier, lower calorie diet
    * Getting more exercise
    * Behavioral help from a mental health counselor and/or support group
    * Prescription weight loss medicines
    * Weight loss surgery. This surgery, also called bariatric surgery, makes changes to your digestive system. This limits the amount of food you are able to eat. It's only used for people with severe obesity and who have tried other weight loss methods that haven't worked.

## References

    1. AHRQ: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality [Internet]. Rockville (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Screening for and Management of Obesity; 2015 Apr [cited 2019 May 24]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.ahrq.gov/professionals/prevention-chronic-care/healthier-pregnancy/preventive/obesity.html#care
    2. Allina Health [Internet]. Minneapolis: Allina Health; Obesity [cited 2019 May 24]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://account.allinahealth.org/library/content/1/7297
    3. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; About Adult BMI [cited 2019 May 24]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/healthyweight/assessing/bmi/adult_bmi/index.html
    4. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; About Child and Teen BMI [cited 2019 May 24]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/healthyweight/assessing/bmi/childrens_bmi/about_childrens_bmi.html#percentile
    5. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Childhood Obesity Facts [cited 2019 May 24]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/obesity/data/childhood.html
    6. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. Childhood obesity: Diagnosis and treatment; 2018 Dec 5 [cited 2019 May 24]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/childhood-obesity/diagnosis-treatment/drc-20354833
    7. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. Childhood obesity: Symptoms and causes; 2018 Dec 5 [cited 2019 May 24]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/childhood-obesity/symptoms-causes/syc-20354827
    8. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. Obesity: Diagnosis and treatment; 2015 Jun 10 [cited 2019 May 24]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/obesity/diagnosis-treatment/drc-20375749
    9. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. Obesity: Symptoms and causes; 2015 Jun 10 [cited 2019 May 24]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/obesity/symptoms-causes/syc-20375742
    10. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2019. Obesity [cited 2019 May 24]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/disorders-of-nutrition/obesity-and-the-metabolic-syndrome/obesity?query=obesity
    11. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2019 May 24]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    12. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Overweight and Obesity [cited 2019 May 24]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/overweight-and-obesity
    13. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Definition and Facts for Bariatric Surgery; 2016 Jul [cited 2019 Jun 17]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/weight-management/bariatric-surgery/definition-facts
    14. OAC [Internet]. Tampa: Obesity Action Coalition; c2019. What is Obesity? [cited 2019 May 24]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.obesityaction.org/get-educated/understanding-your-weight-and-health/what-is-obesity
    15. Stanford Children's Health [Internet]. Palo Alto (CA): Stanford Children's Health; c2019. Determining Body Mass Index for Teens [cited 2019 May 24]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.stanfordchildrens.org/en/topic/default?id=determining-body-mass-index-for-teens-90-P01598
    16. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Bariatric Surgery Center: What is Morbid Obesity? [cited 2019 May 24]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/highland/bariatric-surgery-center/questions/morbid-obesity.aspx
    17. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Overview of Obesity [cited 2019 May 24]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=85&contentid=P07855
    18. US Preventive Services Task Force, Grossman DC, Bibbins-Domingo K, Curry SJ, Barry MJ, Davidson KW, Doubeni CA, Epling JW Jr, Kemper AR, Krist AH, Kurth AE, Landefeld CS, Mangione CM, Phipps MG, Silverstein M, Simon MA, Tseng CW. Screening for Obesity in Children and Adolescents: US Preventive Services Task Force Recommendation Statement. JAMA [Internet]. 2017 Jun 20 [cited 2019 May 24]; 317(23):2417â2426. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28632874
    19. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Obesity: Exams and Tests [updated 2018 Jun 25; cited 2019 May 24]; [about 7 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/special/obesity/hw252864.html#aa51034
    20. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Obesity: Health Risks of Obesity [updated 2018 Jun 25; cited 2019 May 24]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/special/obesity/hw252864.html#aa50963
    21. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Obesity: Topic Overview [updated 2018 Jun 25; cited 2019 May 24]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/special/obesity/hw252864.html#hw252867
    22. Yao A. Screening for and Management of Obesity in Adults: U.S. Preventive Services Task Force Recommendation Statement: A Policy Review. Ann Med Surg (Lond) [Internet]. 2012 Nov 13 [cited 2019 May 24]; 2(1):18â21. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4326119

## Related Health Topics

    * Diabetes Type 2
    * Diets
    * Heart Diseases
    * How Much Exercise Do I Need?
    * Obesity
    * Obesity in Children
    * Weight Control
    * Weight Loss Surgery

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Blood Glucose Test
    * Cortisol Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * TSH (Thyroid-stimulating hormone) Test

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

