Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/phosphate-in-blood/    
                                Description: A phosphate in blood test measures the level of phosphate in your blood. Phosphate blood levels that are too high or too low can be a sign of kidney disease or other serious health problems. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Phosphate in Blood

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/phosphate-in-blood/

# Phosphate in Blood

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a phosphate in blood test?

A phosphate in blood test measures the amount of phosphate in your blood.
Phosphate is an electrically charged particle that contains the mineral
phosphorus. Phosphorus works together with the mineral calcium to build strong
bones and teeth.

Normally, the kidneys filter and remove excess phosphate from the blood. If
phosphate levels in your blood are too high or too low, it can be a sign of
kidney disease or other serious disorder.

Other names: phosphorus test, P, PO4, phosphorus-serum

## What is it used for?

A phosphate in blood test may be used to:

    * Diagnose and monitor kidney disease and bone disorders
    * Diagnose parathyroid disorders. Parathyroid glands are small glands located in the neck. They make hormones that control the amount of calcium in the blood. If the gland makes too much or too little of these hormones, it can cause serious health problems.

A phosphate in blood test is sometimes ordered along with tests of calcium and
other minerals.

## Why do I need a phosphate in blood test?

You may need this test if you have symptoms of kidney disease or a parathyroid
disorder. These include:

    * Fatigue
    * Muscle cramps
    * Bone pain

But many people with these disorders don't have symptoms. So your provider may
order a phosphate test if he or she thinks you may have kidney disease based
on your health history and the results of calcium tests. Calcium and phosphate
work together, so problems with calcium levels can mean problems with
phosphate levels as well. Calcium testing is often part of a routine checkup.

## What happens during a phosphate in blood test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

Certain medicines and supplements can affect phosphate levels. Tell your
health care provider about any prescription and over-the-counter medicines you
are taking. Your provider will let you know if you need to stop taking them
for a few days before your test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

The terms phosphate and phosphorus can mean the same thing in test results. So
your results may show phosphorus levels rather than phosphate levels.

If your test shows you have high phosphate/phosphorus levels, it may mean you
have:

    * Kidney disease
    * Hypoparathyroidism, a condition in which your parathyroid gland doesn't make enough parathyroid hormone
    * Too much vitamin D in your body
    * Too much phosphate in your diet
    * Diabetic ketoacidosis, a life-threatening complication of diabetes

If your test shows you have low phosphate/phosphorus levels, it may mean you
have:

    * Hyperparathyroidism, a condition in which your parathyroid gland produces too much parathyroid hormone
    * Malnutrition
    * Alcoholism
    * Osteomalacia, condition that causes bones to become soft and deformed. It's caused by a vitamin D deficiency. When this condition happens in children, it's known as rickets.

If your phosphate/phosphorus levels are not normal, it doesn't necessarily
mean you have a medical condition needing treatment. Other factors, such as
your diet, can affect your results. Also, children often have higher phosphate
levels because their bones are still growing. If you have questions about your
results, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a phosphate in blood test?

Your provider may order a phosphate in urine test instead of, or in addition
to, a phosphate in blood test.

## References

    1. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Calcium [updated 2018 Dec 19; cited 2019 Jun 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/calcium
    2. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Osteomalacia; [updated 2017 Jul 10; cited 2019 Jun 28]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/glossary/osteomalacia
    3. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Parathyroid Diseases [updated 2018 Jul 3; cited 2019 Jun 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/parathyroid-diseases
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Phosphorus [updated 2018 Dec 21; cited 2019 Jun 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/phosphorus
    5. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2019. Overview of Phosphate's Role in the Body [updated 2018 Sep; cited 2019 Jun 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.merckmanuals.com/home/hormonal-and-metabolic-disorders/electrolyte-balance/overview-of-phosphate-s-role-in-the-body
    6. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2019 Jun 14]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    7. National Kidney Foundation [Internet]. New York: National Kidney Foundation Inc., c2019. A to Z Health Guide: Phosphorus and Your CKD Diet [cited 2019 Jun 14]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.kidney.org/atoz/content/phosphorus
    8. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Phosphorus blood test: Overview [updated 2019 Jun 14; cited 2019 Jun 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/phosphorus-blood-test
    9. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Phosphorus [cited 2019 Jun 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid=phosphorus
    10. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Phosphate in Blood: Results [updated 2018 Nov 6; cited 2019 Jun 14]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/phosphate-in-blood/hw202265.html#hw202294
    11. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Phosphate in Blood: Test Overview [updated 2018 Nov 6; cited 2019 Jun 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/phosphate-in-blood/hw202265.html
    12. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Phosphate in Blood: Why It Is Done [updated 2018 Nov 6; cited 2019 Jun 14]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/phosphate-in-blood/hw202265.html#hw202274

## Related Health Topics

    * Bone Diseases
    * Calcium
    * Kidney Diseases
    * Minerals
    * Parathyroid Disorders
    * Vitamin D

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Calcium Blood Test
    * Calcium in Urine Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Phosphate in Urine
    * Vitamin D Test

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

