Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/hearing-tests-for-adults/    
                                Description: Hearing tests diagnose hearing loss. Hearing loss affects about one-third of all adults over the age of 65. If you are diagnosed with hearing loss, you may be able take steps to treat or manage the condition. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Hearing Tests for Adults

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/hearing-tests-for-adults/

# Hearing Tests for Adults

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What are hearing tests?

Hearing tests measure how well you are able to hear. Normal hearing happens
when sound waves travel into your ear, causing your eardrum to vibrate. The
vibration moves the waves farther into the ear, where it triggers nerve cells
to send sound information to your brain. This information is translated into
the sounds you hear.

Hearing loss happens when there is a problem with one or more parts of the
ear, the nerves inside the ear, or the part of the brain that controls
hearing. There are three main types of hearing loss:

    *  **Sensorineurual** (also called nerve deafness). This type of hearing loss is caused by a problem with the structure of the ear and/or with the nerves that control hearing. It may be present at birth or show up late in life. Sensorineural hearing loss is usually permanent. This type of hearing loss ranges from mild (the inability to hear certain sounds) to profound (the inability to hear any sounds).
    *  **Conductive.** This type of hearing loss is caused by a blockage of sound transmission into the ear. It can occur at any age, but it's most common in infants and young children and is often caused by ear infections or fluid in the ears. Conductive hearing loss is usually mild, temporary, and treatable.
    *  **Mixed** , a combination of both sensorineural and conductive hearing loss.

Hearing loss is common in older adults. About one-third of adults over the age
of 65 have some hearing loss, most often the sensorineural type. If you are
diagnosed with hearing loss, there are steps you can take that may help treat
or manage the condition.

Other names: audiometry; audiography, audiogram, sound test

## What are they used for?

Hearing tests are used to find out whether or not you have a hearing problem
and, if so, how serious it is.

## Why do I need a hearing test?

You may need a hearing test if you have symptoms of hearing loss. These
include:

    * Trouble understanding what other people are saying, especially in a noisy environment
    * Needing to ask people to repeat themselves
    * Trouble hearing high-pitched sounds
    * Needing to turn up the volume on the TV or music player
    * A ringing sound in your ears

## What happens during a hearing test?

Your hearing test may be done by a primary health care provider or one of the
following types of providers:

    * An audiologist, a health care provider who specializes in diagnosing, treating, and managing hearing loss
    * An otolaryngologist (ENT), a doctor specializing in treating diseases and conditions of the ears, nose, and throat.

 **There are several types of hearing tests.** Most tests check for your
response to tones or words delivered at different pitches, volumes, and/or
noise environments. These are called sound tests. Common sound tests include:

 **Acoustic Reflex Measures** , also called middle ear muscle reflex (MEMR),
test how well the ear responds to loud sounds. In normal hearing, a tiny
muscle inside the ear tightens when you hear loud noises. This is called the
acoustic reflex. It happens without you knowing it. During the test:

    * The audiologist or other provider will place a soft rubber tip inside the ear.
    * A series of loud sounds will be sent through the tips and recorded onto a machine.
    * The machine will show when or if the sound has triggered a reflex.
    * If hearing loss is bad, the sound may have to be very loud to trigger a reflex, or it may not trigger the reflex at all.

 **Pure-tone test** , also known as audiometry. During this test:

    * You will put on headphones.
    * A series of tones will be sent to your headphones.
    * The audiologist or other provider will change the pitch and loudness of the tones at different points during the test. At some points, the tones may be barely audible.
    * The provider will ask you to respond whenever you hear the tones. Your response may be to raise your hand or press a button.
    * The test helps find the quietest sounds you can hear at different pitches.

 **Tuning fork tests.** A tuning fork is a two-pronged metal device that makes
a tone when it vibrates. During the test:

    * The audiologist or other provider will place the tuning fork behind your ear or on top of your head.
    * The provider will hit the fork so that it makes a tone.
    * You'll be asked to tell the provider whenever you hear the tone at different volumes, or if you heard the sound in your left ear, right ear, or both equally.
    * Depending on where the fork is placed and how you respond, the test can show if there is hearing loss in one or both ears. It can also show which type of hearing loss you have (conductive or sensorineural).

 **Speech and word recognition tests** can show how well you can hear spoken
language. During the test:

    * You will put on headphones.
    * The audiologist will talk to you through your headphones, and ask you to repeat a series of simple words, spoken at different volumes.
    * The provider will record the softest speech you are able to hear.
    * Some of the testing may be done in a noisy environment, because many people with hearing loss have trouble understanding speech in loud places.

Another type test, called tympanometry, checks for how well your eardrum
moves.

 **During a tympanometry test:**

    * The audiologist or other provider will place a small device inside the ear canal.
    * The device will push air into the ear, making the eardrum move back and forth.
    * A machine records the movement on graphs called tympanograms.
    * The test helps find out if there is an ear infection or other problems such as fluid or wax buildup, or a hole or tear in the eardrum.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for a hearing test?

You don't need any special preparations for a hearing test.

## Are there any risks to hearing tests?

There is no risk to having a hearing test.

## What do the results mean?

Your results may show if you have a hearing loss, and whether the hearing loss
is sensorineural or conductive.

If you are diagnosed with sensorineural hearing loss, your results may show
that the hearing loss is:

    *  **Mild:** you can't hear certain sounds, such as tones that are too high or too low.
    *  **Moderate:** you can't hear many sounds, such as speech in a noisy environment.
    *  **Severe:** you can't hear most sounds.
    *  **Profound:** you can't hear any sounds.

Treatment and management of sensorineural hearing loss will depend on serious
it is.

If you are diagnosed with conductive hearing loss, your provider may recommend
medicine or surgery, depending on the cause of the loss.

If you have questions about the results, talk to your health care provider.

## Is there anything else I need to know about hearing tests?

Even mild hearing loss can make it difficult to understand normal speech.
Because of this, many older adults will avoid social situations, leading to
isolation and depression. Treating hearing loss can help prevent these
problems. While hearing loss in older adults is usually permanent, there are
ways to manage the condition. Treatment options include:

    *  **Hearing aids** **.** A hearing aid is a device that's worn either behind or inside the ear. A hearing aid amplifies (makes louder) sound. Some hearing aids have more advanced functions. Your audiologist can recommend the best option for you.
    *  **Cochlear implants** **.** This is a device that's implanted surgically in the ear. It's usually used in people with more severe hearing loss and who don't get much benefit from using a hearing aid. Cochlear implants send sound directly to the hearing nerve.
    *  **Surgery.** Some types of hearing loss can be treated with surgery. These include problems with the eardrum or in the tiny bones inside the ear.

## References

    1. American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA) [Internet]. Rockville (MD): American Speech-Language-Hearing Association; c1997â2019. Hearing Screening [cited 2019 Mar 30]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.asha.org/public/hearing/Hearing-Screening
    2. American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA) [Internet]. Rockville (MD): American Speech-Language-Hearing Association; c1997â2019. Pure-Tone Testing [cited 2019 Mar 30]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.asha.org/public/hearing/Pure-Tone-Testing
    3. American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA) [Internet]. Rockville (MD): American Speech-Language-Hearing Association; c1997â2019. Speech Testing [cited 2019 Mar 30]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.asha.org/public/hearing/Speech-Testing
    4. American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA) [Internet]. Rockville (MD): American Speech-Language-Hearing Association; c1997â2019. Tests of the Middle Ear [cited 2019 Mar 30]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.asha.org/public/hearing/Tests-of-the-Middle-Ear
    5. Cary Audiology Associates [Internet]. Cary (NC): Audiology Design; c2019. 3 FAQs About Hearing Tests [cited 2019 Marr 30]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://caryaudiology.com/blog/3-faqs-about-hearing-tests
    6. Healthfinder.gov. [Internet]. Washington D.C.: U.S Department of Health and Human Services; Get Your Hearing Checked [updated 2019 Mar 30; cited 2019 Mar 30]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://healthfinder.gov/healthtopics/population/older-adults/doctor-visits/get-your-hearing-checked#the-basics_2
    7. Mayfield Brain and Spine [Internet]. Cincinnati: Mayfield Brain and Spine; c2008â2019. Hearing (audiometry) test [updated 2018 Apr; cited 2019 Mar 30]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://mayfieldclinic.com/pe-hearing.htm
    8. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. Hearing Loss: Diagnosis and treatment; 2019 Mar 16 [cited 2019 Mar 30]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/hearing-loss/diagnosis-treatment/drc-20373077
    9. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. Hearing Loss: Symptoms and causes; 2019 Mar 16 [cited 2019 Mar 30]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/hearing-loss/symptoms-causes/syc-20373072
    10. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2019. Hearing Loss [cited 2019 Mar 30]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/ear,-nose,-and-throat-disorders/hearing-loss-and-deafness/hearing-loss?query=hearing%20loss
    11. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Audiometry: Overview [updated 2019 Mar 30; cited 2019 Mar 30]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/audiometry
    12. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Tympanometry: Overview [updated 2019 Mar 30; cited 2019 Mar 30]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/tympanometry
    13. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Age-Related Hearing Loss (Presbycusis) [cited 2019 Mar 30]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?ContentTypeID=85&ContentID=P00463
    14. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Hearing Tests: How It Is Done [updated 2018 Mar 28; cited 2019 Mar 30]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/hearing-tests/tv8475.html#tv8479
    15. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Hearing Tests: Results [updated 2018 Mar 28; cited 2019 Mar 30]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/hearing-tests/tv8475.html#tv8482
    16. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Hearing Tests: Risks [updated 2018 Mar 28; cited 2019 Mar 30]; [about 7 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/hearing-tests/tv8475.html#tv8481
    17. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Hearing Tests: Test Overview [updated 2018 Mar 28; cited 2019 Mar 30]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/hearing-tests/tv8475.html
    18. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Hearing Tests: Why It Is Done [updated 2018 Mar 28; cited 2019 Mar 30]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/hearing-tests/tv8475.html#tv8477
    19. Walling AD, Dickson GM. Hearing Loss in Older Adults. Am Fam Physician [Internet]. 2012 Jun 15 [cited 2019 Mar 30]; 85(12):1150â1156. Available from: https://www.aafp.org/afp/2012/0615/p1150.html

## Related Health Topics

    * Cochlear Implants
    * Ear Infections
    * Hearing Aids
    * Hearing Disorders and Deafness
    * Hearing Problems in Children

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Hearing Tests for Children
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

