Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/adrenocorticotropic-hormone-acth/    
                                Description: This test measures the level of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) in the blood. ACTH is made by the pituitary gland and controls the production of a hormone called cortisol. Too much or too little cortisol can cause serious health problems. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Adrenocorticotropic Hormone (ACTH)

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/adrenocorticotropic-
hormone-acth/

# Adrenocorticotropic Hormone (ACTH)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is an adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) test?

This test measures the level of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) in the
blood. ACTH is a hormone made by the pituitary gland, a small gland at the
base of the brain. ACTH controls the production of another hormone called
cortisol. Cortisol is made by the adrenal glands, two small glands located
above the kidneys. Cortisol plays an important role in helping you to:

    * Respond to stress
    * Fight infection
    * Regulate blood sugar
    * Maintain blood pressure
    * Regulate metabolism, the process of how your body uses food and energy

Too much or too little cortisol can cause serious health problems.

Other names: Adrenocorticotropic hormone blood test, corticotropin

## What is it used for?

An ACTH test is often done along with a cortisol test to diagnose disorders of
the pituitary or adrenal glands. These include:

    *  **Cushing's syndrome**, a disorder in which the adrenal gland makes too much cortisol. It may be caused by a tumor in the pituitary gland or the use of steroid medicines. Steroids are used to treat inflammation, but can have side effects that effect cortisol levels.
    *  **Cushing's disease** , a form of Cushing's syndrome. In this disorder, the pituitary gland makes too much ACTH. It is usually caused by a noncancerous tumor of the pituitary gland.
    *  **Addison disease**, a condition in which the adrenal gland doesn't make enough cortisol.
    *  **Hypopituitarism** , a disorder in which the pituitary gland does not make enough of some or all of its hormones.

## Why do I need an ACTH test?

You may need this test if you have symptoms of too much or too little
cortisol.

Symptoms of too much cortisol include:

    * Weight gain
    * Buildup of fat in the shoulders
    * Pink or purple stretch marks (lines) on the abdomen, thighs, and/or breasts
    * Skin that bruises easily
    * Increased body hair
    * Muscle weakness
    * Fatigue
    * Acne

Symptoms of too little cortisol include:

    * Weight loss
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Diarrhea
    * Abdominal pain
    * Dizziness
    * Darkening of the skin
    * Salt craving
    * Fatigue

You may also need this test if you have symptoms of hypopituitarism. Symptoms
will vary depending on the severity of the disease, but may include the
following:

    * Loss of appetite
    * Irregular menstrual periods and infertility in women
    * Loss of body and facial hair in men
    * Lower sex drive in men and women
    * Sensitivity to cold
    * Urinating more often than usual
    * Fatigue

## What happens during an ACTH test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You may need to fast (not eat or drink) overnight before testing. Tests are
usually done early in the morning because cortisol levels change throughout
the day.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

Results of an ACTH test are often compared with the results of cortisol tests
and may show one of the following:

    * High ACTH and high cortisol levels: This may mean Cushing's disease.
    * Low ACTH and high cortisol levels: This may mean Cushing's syndrome or a tumor of the adrenal gland.
    * High ACTH and low cortisol levels: This may mean Addison disease.
    * Low ACTH and low cortisol levels. This may mean hypopituitarism.

If you have questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about an ACTH test?

A test called an ACTH stimulation test is sometimes done instead of an ACTH
test to diagnose Addison disease and hypopituitarism. An ACTH stimulation test
is a blood test that measures cortisol levels before and after you've received
an injection of ACTH.

## References

    1. Family doctor.org [Internet]. Leawood (KS): American Academy of Family Physicians; c2019. How to Stop Steroid Medicines Safely; [updated 2018 Feb 8; cited 2019 Aug 31]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://familydoctor.org/how-to-stop-steroid-medicines-safely
    2. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Adrenocorticotropic Hormone (ACTH); [updated 2019 Jun 5; cited 2019 Aug 27]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/adrenocorticotropic-hormone-acth
    3. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Metabolism; [updated 2017 Jul 10; cited 2019 Aug 27]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/glossary/metabolism
    4. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998--â2019. Addison's disease: Diagnosis and treatment; 2018 Nov 10 [cited 2019 Aug 27]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/addisons-disease/diagnosis-treatment/drc-20350296
    5. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998--â2019. Addison's disease: Symptoms and causes; 2018 Nov 10 [cited 2019 Aug 27]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/addisons-disease/symptoms-causes/syc-20350293
    6. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998--â2019. Cushing Syndrome: Symptoms and causes; 2019 May 30 [cited 2019 Aug 27]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/cushing-syndrome/symptoms-causes/syc-20351310
    7. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998-â2019. Hypopituitarism: Symptoms and causes; 2019 May 18 [cited 2019 Aug 27]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/hypopituitarism/symptoms-causes/syc-20351645
    8. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests; [cited 2019 Aug 27]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    9. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. ACTH blood test: Overview; [updated 2019 Aug 27; cited 2019 Aug 27]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/acth-blood-test
    10. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. ACTH stimulation test: Overview; [updated 2019 Aug 27; cited 2019 Aug 27]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/acth-stimulation-test
    11. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Hypopituitarism: Overview; [updated 2019 Aug 27; cited 2019 Aug 27]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/hypopituitarism
    12. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: ACTH (Blood); [cited 2019 Aug 27]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid=acth_blood
    13. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Adrenocorticotropic Hormone: Results; [updated 2018 Nov 6; cited 2019 Aug 27]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/adrenocorticotropic-hormone/hw1613.html#hw1639
    14. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Adrenocorticotropic Hormone: Test Overview; [updated 2018 Nov 6; cited 2019 Aug 27]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/adrenocorticotropic-hormone/hw1613.html
    15. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Adrenocorticotropic Hormone: Why It Is Done; [updated 2018 Nov 6; cited 2019 Aug 27]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/adrenocorticotropic-hormone/hw1613.html#hw1621

## Related Health Topics

    * Addison Disease
    * Adrenal Gland Disorders
    * Cushing's Syndrome
    * Hormones
    * Pituitary Disorders
    * Pituitary Tumors

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Cortisol Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

