Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/magnesium-blood-test/    
                                Description: This test measures the amount of magnesium in your blood. A magnesium deficiency or excess magnesium can be a sign of a serious health problem. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Magnesium Blood Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/magnesium-blood-test/

# Magnesium Blood Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a magnesium blood test?

A magnesium blood test measures the amount of magnesium in your blood.
Magnesium is a type of electrolyte. Electrolytes are electrically charged
minerals that are responsible for many important functions and processes in
your body.

Your body needs magnesium to help your muscles, nerves, and heart work
properly. Magnesium also helps control blood pressure and blood sugar.

Most of your body's magnesium is in your bones and cells. But a small amount
is found in your blood. Magnesium levels in the blood that are too low or too
high can be a sign of a serious health problem.

Other names: Mg, Mag, Magnesium-Serum

## What is it used for?

A magnesium blood test is used to check to see if you have too little or too
much magnesium in the blood. Having too little magnesium, known as
hypomagnesemia or magnesium deficiency, is more common than having too much
magnesium, which is known as hypermagnesemia.

A magnesium blood test is also sometimes included with tests of other
electrolytes, such as sodium, calcium, potassium, and chloride.

## Why do I need a magnesium blood test?

Your health care provider may order a magnesium blood test if you have
symptoms of low magnesium or high magnesium levels.

Symptoms of low magnesium include:

    * Weakness
    * Muscle cramps and/or twitching
    * Confusion
    * Irregular heartbeat
    * Seizures (in severe cases)

Symptoms of high magnesium include:

    * Muscle weakness
    * Fatigue
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Trouble breathing
    * Cardiac arrest, the sudden stopping of the heart (in severe cases)

You may also need this test if you are pregnant. A magnesium deficiency can be
a sign of preeclampsia, a serious form of high blood pressure that affects
pregnant women.

In addition, your provider may order this test if you have a health problem
that can cause a magnesium deficiency. These include malnutrition, alcoholism,
and diabetes.

## What happens during a magnesium blood test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

Certain medicines can affect magnesium levels. Tell your health care provider
about any prescription and over-the-counter medicines you are taking. Your
provider will let you know if you need to stop taking them for a few days
before your test. You'll also need to stop taking magnesium supplements before
your test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

If your results show you have a magnesium deficiency, it may be a sign of:

    * Alcoholism
    * Malnutrition
    * Preeclampsia (if you are pregnant)
    * Chronic diarrhea
    * Digestive disorder, such as Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis
    * Diabetes

If your results show you have a higher than normal amount of magnesium, it may
be a sign of:

    * Addison disease, a disorder of the adrenal glands
    * Kidney disease
    * Dehydration, the loss of too much bodily fluids
    * Diabetic ketoacidosis, a life-threatening complication of diabetes
    * Overuse of antacids or laxatives that contain magnesium

If your results show you have a magnesium deficiency, your health care
provider will probably recommend you take magnesium supplements to raise
levels of the mineral. If your results show you have too much magnesium, your
provider may recommend IV therapies (medicine given directly to your veins)
that can remove excess magnesium.

If you have questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a magnesium blood test?

Your health care provider may order a magnesium in urine test, in addition to
a magnesium blood test.

## References

    1. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Magnesium, Serum; p. 372.
    2. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Electrolytes [updated 2019 May 6; cited 2019 Jun 10]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/electrolytes
    3. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Magnesium [updated 2018 Dec 21; cited 2019 Jun 10]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/magnesium
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Pre-eclampsia [updated 2019 May 14; cited 2019 Jun 10]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/pre-eclampsia
    5. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2019. Hypermagnesemia (High Level of Magnesium in the Blood) [updated 2018 Sep; cited 2019 Jun 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/hormonal-and-metabolic-disorders/electrolyte-balance/hypermagnesemia-high-level-of-magnesium-in-the-blood?query=hypermagnesemia
    6. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2019. Hypomagnesemia (Low Level of Magnesium in the Blood) [updated 2018 Sep; cited 2019 Jun 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/hormonal-and-metabolic-disorders/electrolyte-balance/hypomagnesemia-low-level-of-magnesium-in-the-blood?query=magnesium%20deficiency
    7. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2019. Overview of Magnesium's Role in the Body [updated 2018 Sep; cited 2019 Jun 10]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/hormonal-and-metabolic-disorders/electrolyte-balance/overview-of-magnesium-s-role-in-the-body?query=magnesium
    8. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2019 Jun 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    9. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Magnesium blood test: Overview [updated 2019 Jun 10; cited 2019 Jun 10]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/magnesium-blood-test
    10. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Magnesium (Blood) [cited 2019 Jun 10]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid=magnesium_blood
    11. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Magnesium (Mg): How to Prepare [updated 2018 Jun 25; cited 2019 Jun 10]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/magnesium/aa11636.html#aa11652
    12. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Magnesium (Mg): Test Overview [updated 2018 Jun 25; cited 2019 Jun 10]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/magnesium/aa11636.html

## Related Health Topics

    * Alcohol Use Disorder (AUD)
    * Calcium
    * Dietary Supplements
    * Fluid and Electrolyte Balance
    * High Blood Pressure in Pregnancy
    * Malnutrition
    * Minerals
    * Potassium
    * Sodium

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Anion Gap Blood Test
    * Calcium Blood Test
    * Calcium in Urine Test
    * Chloride Blood Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Phosphate in Urine
    * Potassium Blood Test
    * Sodium Blood Test

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

