Link: https://medlineplus.gov/concussion.html    
                                Description: Concussion, a minor injury to the brain due to a blow or hit to the head. Symptoms may not show up right away. Learn when to see your doctor.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Concussion

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/concussion.html

#  Concussion

Also called: Brain concussion

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Symptoms
  * Diagnosis and Tests
  * Prevention and Risk Factors

### Learn More

  * Related Issues
  * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

  * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

  * Statistics and Research
  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Teenagers
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

A concussion is a type of brain injury. It involves a short loss of normal
brain function. It happens when a hit to the head or body causes your head and
brain to move rapidly back and forth. This sudden movement can cause the brain
to bounce around or twist in the skull, creating chemical changes in your
brain. Sometimes it can also stretch and damage your brain cells.

Sometimes people call a concussion a "mild" brain injury. It is important to
understand that while concussions may not be life-threatening, they can still
be serious.

Concussions are a common type of sports injury. Other causes of concussions
include blows to the head, bumping your head when you fall, being violently
shaken, and car accidents.

Symptoms of a concussion may not start right away; they may start days or
weeks after the injury. Symptoms may include a headache or neck pain. You may
also have nausea, ringing in your ears, dizziness, or tiredness. You may feel
dazed or not your normal self for several days or weeks after the injury.
Consult your health care professional if any of your symptoms get worse, or if
you have more serious symptoms such as

  * Convulsions or seizures
  * Drowsiness or inability to wake up
  * A headache that gets worse and does not go away
  * Weakness, numbness, or decreased coordination
  * Repeated vomiting or nausea
  * Confusion
  * Slurred speech
  * Loss of consciousness

To diagnose a concussion, your health care provider will do a physical exam
and will ask about your injury. You will most likely have a neurological exam,
which checks your vision, balance, coordination, and reflexes. Your health
care provider may also evaluate your memory and thinking. In some cases, you
may also have a scan of the brain, such as a CT scan or an MRI. A scan can
check for bleeding or inflammation in the brain, as well as a skull fracture
(break in the skull).

Most people recover fully after a concussion, but it can take some time. Rest
is very important after a concussion because it helps the brain to heal. In
the very beginning, you may need to limit physical activities or activities
that involve a lot of concentration, such as studying, working on the
computer, or playing video games. Doing these may cause concussion symptoms
(such as headache or tiredness) to come back or get worse. Then when your
health care provider says that it is ok, you can start to return to your
normal activities slowly.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Start Here

  * Bang to the Brain: What We Know about Concussions ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
  * Concussion (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
  * Concussion (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
  * Concussions in Kids (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
  * Heads Up (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Symptoms

  * What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Concussion? (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Concussion Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

  * Brain Injury Safety Tips and Prevention (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Related Issues

  * Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * FAQs about Baseline Testing among Young Athletes (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
  * Post-Concussion Syndrome (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * What Can I Do to Help Feel Better After a Mild Traumatic Brain Injury? (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Specifics

  * Concussion in Winter Sports (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Videos and Tutorials

  * Concussion ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Heads Up: Concussion in Youth Sports ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Statistics and Research

  * Biomarker in Blood May Help Predict Recovery Time for Sports Concussions ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Brain Concussion ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Brain Injuries ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Craniocerebral Trauma ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Concussion, Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy and Sport in a Legal Setting.
  * Article: Dynavision Normative Data for Healthy Adults: Reaction Test Program.
  * Article: Scotland to ban heading in children's football.
  * Concussion -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

  * American Academy of Neurology
  * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

  * Concussions (Nemours Foundation)
  * School and Concussions (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

  * Concussion (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Concussion - adults - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Concussion - child - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Preventing head injuries in children (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Concussion](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Concussion.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Concussion
  * Concussion
  * Concussion - adults - discharge
  * Concussion - child - discharge
  * Concussion - what to ask your doctor - adult
  * Concussion - what to ask your doctor - child
  * Head CT scan
  * Preventing head injuries in children
  * Skull x-ray

## Related Health Topics

  * Head Injuries
  * Traumatic Brain Injury

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Concussion is the National
Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Concussion_

## NIH MedlinePlus Magazine

  * Head Start on Concussion Recovery
  * Kids and Concussions

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 28 June 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

