Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/cord-blood-testing-and-banking/    
                                Description: Cord blood testing measures certain substances in blood from the umbilical cord. Cord blood banking saves cord blood in hopes that it may help treat certain disorders in the future. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Cord Blood Testing and Banking

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/cord-blood-testing-and-
banking/

# Cord Blood Testing and Banking

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What are cord blood testing and cord blood banking?

Cord blood is the blood left in the umbilical cord after a baby is born. The
umbilical cord is the rope-like structure that connects a mother to her unborn
baby during pregnancy. It contains blood vessels that bring nourishment to the
baby and remove waste products. After a baby is born, the cord is cut with a
small piece remaining. This piece will heal and form the baby's belly button.

 **Cord blood testing**

Once the umbilical cord has been cut, a health care provider may take a sample
of blood from the cord for testing. These tests may measure a variety of
substances and check for infections or other disorders.

 **Cord blood banking**

Some people want to bank (save and store) blood from their baby's umbilical
cord for future use in treating diseases. The umbilical cord is full of
special cells called stem cells. Unlike other cells, stem cells have the
ability to grow into many different types of cells. These include bone marrow,
blood cells, and brain cells. Stem cells in cord blood can be used to treat
certain blood disorders, including leukemia, Hodgkin disease, and some types
of anemia. Researchers are studying whether stem cells can also treat other
types of diseases.

## What is cord blood testing used for?

Cord blood testing may be used to:

    * Measure blood gases. This helps to see if a baby's blood has a healthy level of oxygen and other substances.
    * Measure bilirubin levels. Bilirubin is a waste product made by the liver. High bilirubin levels can be a sign of a liver disease.
    * Perform a blood culture. This test may be done if a provider thinks a baby has an infection.
    * Measure different parts of the blood with a complete blood count. This is done more often on premature babies.
    * Check for signs of a baby's exposure to illegal or misused prescription drugs a mother may have taken during pregnancy. Umbilical cord blood can show signs of a variety of drugs, including opiates; such as heroin and fentanyl; cocaine; marijuana; and sedatives. If any of these drugs are found in cord blood, a health care provider can take steps to treat the baby and help avoid complications such as developmental delays.

## What is cord blood banking used for?

You may want to consider banking your baby's cord blood if you:

    * Have a family history of a blood disorder or certain cancers. Your baby's stem cells will be a close genetic match to his or her sibling or other family member. The blood may be helpful in treatment.
    * Want to protect your child from a future illness, although it's unlikely that a child can be treated with his or her own stem cells. That's because a child's own stem cells may have the same problem that led to the disease in the first place.
    * Want to help others. You can donate your baby's cord blood to a facility that provides lifesaving stem cells to patients in need.

## How is cord blood collected?

Soon after your baby is born, the umbilical cord will be cut to separate the
baby from your body. The cord used to be routinely cut right after birth, but
leading health organizations now recommend waiting at least one minute before
cutting. This helps improve blood flow to the baby, which may have long-term
health benefits.

After the cord is cut, a health care provider will use a tool called a clamp
to stop the cord from bleeding. The provider will then use a needle to
withdraw blood from the cord. The cord blood will be packaged and either sent
to a lab for testing or to a cord blood bank for long-term storage.

## How is cord blood banked?

There are two types of umbilical cord blood banks.

    *  **Private banks.** These facilities save your baby's cord blood for your family's personal use. These facilities charge a fee for collection and storage. However, there is no guarantee the cord blood will be useful to treat your baby or a member of your family in the future.
    *  **Public banks.** These facilities use cord blood to help others and to do research. Cord blood in public banks may be used by anyone who needs it.

## Is there any preparation needed for cord blood testing or banking?

There are no special preparations needed for cord blood testing. If you want
to bank your baby's cord blood, talk to your health care provider early in
your pregnancy. This will give you time to get more information and review
your options.

## Are there any risks to cord blood testing or banking?

There is no risk to cord blood testing. Cord blood banking at a private
facility can be very expensive. The cost is usually not covered by insurance.

## What do cord blood test results mean?

Cord blood test results will depend on what substances were measured. If
results were not normal, talk to your health care provider to see if your baby
needs treatment.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about cord blood testing or banking?

Unless you have a family history of certain blood disorders or cancers, it's
unlikely your baby's cord blood will help your baby or your family. But
research is ongoing and the future of using stem cells for treatment looks
promising. Also, if you save your baby's cord blood at a public cord bank, you
may be able to help patients right now.

For more information on cord blood and/or stem cells, talk to your health care
provider.

## References

    1. ACOG: The American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists; c2019. ACOG Committee Opinion: Delayed Umbilical Cord Clamping After Birth; 2017 Jan [cited 2019 Aug 25]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.acog.org/Clinical-Guidance-and-Publications/Committee-Opinions/Committee-on-Obstetric-Practice/Delayed-Umbilical-Cord-Clamping-After-Birth?IsMobileSet=false
    2. ACOG: The American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists; c2019. ACOG Committee Opinion: Umbilical Cord Blood Banking; 2015 Dec [cited 2019 Aug 21]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.acog.org/Clinical-Guidance-and-Publications/Committee-Opinions/Committee-on-Genetics/Umbilical-Cord-Blood-Banking
    3. Armstrong L, Stenson BJ. Use of umbilical cord blood gas analysis in the assessment of the newborn. Arch Dis Child Fetal Neonatal Ed. [Internet]. 2007 Nov [cited 2019 Aug 21]; 92(6):F430â4. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2675384
    4. Calkins K, Roy D, Molchan L, Bradley L, Grogan T, Elashoff D, Walker V. Predictive value of cord blood bilirubin for hyperbilirubinemia in neonates at risk for maternal-fetal blood group incompatibility and hemolytic disease of the newborn. J Neonatal Perinatal Med. [Internet]. 2015 Oct 24 [cited 2019 Aug 21]; 8(3):243â250. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4699805
    5. Carroll PD, Nankervis CA, Iams J, Kelleher K. Umbilical cord blood as a replacement source for admission complete blood count in premature infants. J Perinatol. [Internet]. 2012 Feb; [cited 2019 Aug 21]; 32(2):97â102. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3891501
    6. ClinLab Navigator [Internet]. ClinLabNavigator; c2019. Cord Blood Gases [cited 2019 Aug 21]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.clinlabnavigator.com/cord-blood-gases.html
    7. Farst KJ, Valentine JL, Hall RW. Drug testing for newborn exposure to illicit substances in pregnancy: pitfalls and pearls. Int J Pediatr. [Internet]. 2011 Jul 17 [cited 2019 Aug 21]; 2011:956161. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3139193
    8. Harvard Health Publishing: Harvard Medical School [Internet]. Boston: Harvard University; 2010â2019. Why parents should save their baby's cord bloodâand give it away; 2017 Oct 31 [cited 2019 Aug 21]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.health.harvard.edu/blog/parents-save-babys-cord-blood-give-away-2017103112654
    9. HealthyChildren.org [Internet]. Itasca (IL): American Academy of Pediatrics; c2019. AAP Encourages Use of Public Cord Banks; 2017 Oct 30 [cited 2019 Aug 21]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.healthychildren.org/English/news/Pages/AAP-Encourages-Use-of-Public-Cord-Blood-Banks.aspx
    10. Kids Health from Nemours [Internet]. Jacksonville (FL): The Nemours Foundation; c1995â2019. Cord Blood Banking [cited 2019 Aug 21]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://kidshealth.org/en/parents/cord-blood.html
    11. March of Dimes [Internet]. Arlington (VA): March of Dimes; c2019. Umbilical Cord Conditions [cited 2019 Aug 21]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.marchofdimes.org/complications/umbilical-cord-conditions.aspx
    12. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. What is cord blood bankingâand is it better to use a public or private facility?; 2017 Apr 11 [cited 2019 Aug 21]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/healthy-lifestyle/labor-and-delivery/expert-answers/cord-blood-banking/faq-20058321
    13. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Bilirubin blood test: Overview [updated 2019 Aug 21; cited 2019 Aug 21]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/bilirubin-blood-test
    14. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Cord blood testing: Overview [updated 2019 Aug 21; cited 2019 Aug 21]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/cord-blood-testing
    15. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Cord Blood Banking [cited 2019 Aug 21]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=160&contentid=48
    16. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Pregnancy: Should I Bank My Baby's Umbilical Cord Blood? [updated 2018 Sep 5; cited 2019 Aug 21]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/decisionpoint/pregnancy-should-i-bank-my-baby-s-umbilical-cord-blood/zx1634.html

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Bacteria Culture Test
    * Bilirubin Blood Test
    * Blood Oxygen Level
    * Complete Blood Count (CBC)
    * Drug Testing
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

