Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/electromyography-emg-and-nerve-conduction-studies/    
                                Description: Electromyography (EMG) and nerve conduction studies are tests that measure the electrical activity of muscles and nerves. They are used to find out if you have a disorder of your muscles, nerves, or both. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Electromyography (EMG) and Nerve Conduction Studies

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/electromyography-emg-and-
nerve-conduction-studies/

# Electromyography (EMG) and Nerve Conduction Studies

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What are electromyography (EMG) and nerve conduction studies?

Electromyography (EMG) and nerve conduction studies are tests that measure the
electrical activity of muscles and nerves. Nerves send out electrical signals
to make your muscles react in certain ways. As your muscles react, they give
off these signals, which can then be measured.

    * **An EMG test** looks at the electrical signals your muscles make when they are at rest and when they are being used.
    * **A nerve conduction study** measures how fast and how well the body's electrical signals travel down your nerves.

EMG tests and nerve conduction studies can both help find out if you have a
disorder of your muscles, nerves, or both. These tests can be done separately,
but they are usually done at the same time.

Other names: electrodiagnostic study, EMG test, electromyogram, NCS, nerve
conduction velocity, NCV

## What are they used for?

EMG and nerve conduction studies are used to help diagnose a variety of muscle
and nerve disorders. An EMG test helps find out if muscles are responding the
right way to nerve signals. Nerve conduction studies help diagnose nerve
damage or disease. When EMG tests and nerve conduction studies are done
together, it helps providers tell if your symptoms are caused by a muscle
disorder or a nerve problem.

## Why do I need an EMG test and a nerve conduction study?

You may need these tests if you have symptoms of a muscle or nerve disorder.
These symptoms include:

    * Muscle weakness
    * Tingling or numbness in arms, legs, hands, feet, and/or face
    * Muscle cramps, spasms, and/or twitching
    * Paralysis of any muscles

## What happens during an EMG test and nerve conduction study?

**For an EMG test:**

    * You will sit or lie down on a table or bed.
    * Your provider will clean the skin over the muscle being tested.
    * Your provider will place a needle electrode into the muscle. You may have slight pain or discomfort when the electrode is inserted.
    * The machine will record the muscle activity while your muscle is at rest.
    * Then you will be asked to tighten (contract) the muscle slowly and steadily.
    * The electrode may be moved to record activity in different muscles.
    * The electrical activity is recorded and shown on a video screen. The activity is displayed as wavy and spiky lines. The activity may also be recorded and sent to an audio speaker. You may hear popping sounds when you contract your muscle.

**For a nerve conduction study:**

    * You will sit or lie down on a table or bed.
    * Your provider will attach one or more electrodes to a certain nerve or nerves using tape or a paste. The electrodes, called stimulating electrodes, deliver a mild electrical pulse.
    * Your provider will attach different types of electrodes to the muscle or muscles controlled by those nerves. These electrodes will record the responses to the electrical stimulation from the nerve.
    * Your provider will send a small pulse of electricity through the stimulating electrodes to stimulate the nerve to send a signal to the muscle.
    * This may cause a mild tingling feeling.
    * Your provider will record the time it takes for your muscle to respond to the nerve signal.
    * The speed of the response is called the conduction velocity.

If you are having both tests, the nerve conduction study will be done first.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for these tests?

Tell your health care provider if you have a pacemaker or cardiac
defibrillator. Special steps will need to be taken before the test if you have
one of these devices.

Wear loose, comfortable clothing that allows easy access to the test area or
can be easily removed if you need to change into a hospital gown.

Make sure your skin is clean. Don't use lotions, creams, or perfumes for a day
or two before the test.

## Are there any risks to the tests?

You may feel a little pain or cramping during an EMG test. You may have a
tingly feeling, like a mild electric shock, during a nerve conduction study.

## What do the results mean?

If your results were not normal, it can indicate a variety of different
conditions. Depending on which muscles or nerves are affected, it may mean one
of the following:

    * **Carpal tunnel syndrome**, a condition that affects nerves in the hand and arm. It's usually not serious, but can be painful.
    * **Herniated disc**, a condition that happens when a part of your spine, called a disc, is damaged. This puts pressure on the spine, causing pain and numbness
    * **Guillain-BarrÃ© syndrome**, an autoimmune disorder that affects the nerves. It can lead to numbness, tingling, and paralysis. Most people recover from the disorder after treatment
    * **Myasthenia gravis**, a rare disorder that causes muscle fatigue and weakness.
    * **Muscular dystrophy**, an inherited disease that seriously affects muscle structure and function.
    * **Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease**, an inherited disorder that causes nerve damage, mostly in the arms and legs.
    * **Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)**, also known as Lou Gehrig's disease. This is a progressive, ultimately fatal, disorder that attacks nerve cells in your brain and spinal cord. It affects all the muscles you use to move, speak, eat, and breathe.

If you have questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

## References

    1. Cleveland Clinic [Internet]. Cleveland (OH): Cleveland Clinic; c2019. Electromyograms; [cited 2019 Dec 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/articles/4825-electromyograms
    2. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Electromyography; p. 250â251.
    3. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: Symptoms and causes; 2019 Aug 6 [cited 2019 Dec 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/amyotrophic-lateral-sclerosis/symptoms-causes/syc-20354022
    4. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease: Symptoms and causes; 2019 Jan 11 [cited 2019 Dec 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/charcot-marie-tooth-disease/symptoms-causes/syc-20350517
    5. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. Guillain-BarrÃ© syndrome: Symptoms and causes; 2019 Oct 24 [cited 2019 Dec 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/guillain-barre-syndrome/symptoms-causes/syc-20362793
    6. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2019. Quick Facts: Electromyography (EMG) and Nerve Conduction Studies; [updated 2018 Sep; cited 2019 Dec 17]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/quick-facts-brain,-spinal-cord,-and-nerve-disorders/diagnosis-of-brain,-spinal-cord,-and-nerve-disorders/electromyography-emg-and-nerve-conduction-studies
    7. National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Motor Neuron Diseases Fact Sheet; [updated 2019 Aug 13; cited 2019 Dec 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.ninds.nih.gov/Disorders/Patient-Caregiver-Education/Fact-Sheets/Motor-Neuron-Diseases-Fact-Sheet
    8. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Electromyography: Overview; [updated 2019 Dec 17; cited 2019 Dec 17]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/electromyography
    9. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Nerve conduction velocity: Overview; [updated 2019 Dec 17; cited 2019 Dec 17]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/nerve-conduction-velocity
    10. U Health: University of Utah [Internet]. Salt Lake City: University of Utah Health; c2019. You Are Scheduled For An Electrodiagnostic Study (NCS/EMG); [cited 2019 Dec 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://healthcare.utah.edu/neurosciences/neurology/electrodiagnostic-study-ncs-emg.php
    11. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Electromyography; [cited 2019 Dec 17]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=92&contentid=p07656
    12. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Nerve Conduction Velocity; [cited 2019 Dec 17]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=92&contentid=P07657
    13. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Electromyogram (EMG) and Nerve Conduction Studies: How It Is Done; [updated 2019 Mar 28; cited 2019 Dec 17]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/electromyogram-emg-and-nerve-conduction-studies/hw213852.html#hw213813
    14. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Electromyogram (EMG) and Nerve Conduction Studies: How To Prepare; [updated 2019 Mar 28; cited 2019 Dec 17]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/electromyogram-emg-and-nerve-conduction-studies/hw213852.html#hw213805
    15. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Electromyogram (EMG) and Nerve Conduction Studies: Risks; [updated 2019 Mar 28; cited 2019 Dec 17]; [about 7 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/electromyogram-emg-and-nerve-conduction-studies/hw213852.html#aa29838
    16. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Electromyogram (EMG) and Nerve Conduction Studies: Test Overview; [updated 2019 Mar 28; cited 2019 Dec 17]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/electromyogram-emg-and-nerve-conduction-studies/hw213852.html
    17. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Electromyogram (EMG) and Nerve Conduction Studies: Why It Is Done; [updated 2019 Mar 28; cited 2019 Dec 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/electromyogram-emg-and-nerve-conduction-studies/hw213852.html#hw213794

## Related Health Topics

    * Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis
    * Degenerative Nerve Diseases
    * Muscle Disorders
    * Muscular Dystrophy
    * Neurologic Diseases
    * Spinal Cord Diseases

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) Analysis
    * Creatine Kinase
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Neurological Exam

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 19 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

