Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/lactic-acid-test/    
                                Description: This test measures the level of lactic acid in the blood. Lactic acid carries oxygen from your lungs to other parts of your body. Too much lactic acid in the blood can lead to a life-threatening condition called lactic acidosis. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Lactic Acid Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/lactic-acid-test/

# Lactic Acid Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a lactic acid test?

This test measures the level of lactic acid, also known as lactate, in your
blood. Lactic acid is a substance made by muscle tissue and by red blood
cells, which carry oxygen from your lungs to other parts of your body.
Normally, the level of lactic acid in the blood is low. Lactic acid levels
rise when oxygen levels decrease. Low oxygen levels may be caused by:

    * Strenuous exercise
    * Heart failure
    * Severe infection
    * Shock, a dangerous condition that limits blood flow to your organs and tissues

If lactic acid levels get too high, it can lead to a life-threatening
condition known as lactic acidosis. A lactic acid test can help diagnose
lactic acidosis before it causes serious complications.

Other names: lactate test, lactic acid: plasma

## What is it used for?

A lactic acid test is most often used to diagnose lactic acidosis. The test
may also be used to:

    * Help find out if enough oxygen is reaching the body's tissues
    * Help diagnose sepsis, a life-threatening reaction to a bacterial infection

If meningitis is suspected, the test may also be used to help find out if it
is caused by bacteria or a virus. Meningitis is a serious infection of the
brain and spinal cord. A test for lactate in cerebrospinal fluid is used with
a lactic acid blood test to figure out the type of infection.

## Why do I need a lactic acid test?

You may need a lactic acid test if you have symptoms of lactic acidosis. These
include:

    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Muscle weakness
    * Sweating
    * Shortness of breath
    * Abdominal pain

You may also need this test if you have symptoms of sepsis or meningitis.
Symptoms of sepsis include:

    * Fever
    * Chills
    * Rapid heart rate
    * Rapid breathing
    * Confusion

Symptoms of meningitis include:

    * Severe headache
    * Fever
    * Stiff neck
    * Sensitivity to light

## What happens during a lactic acid test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein or an artery.
To take a sample from a vein, the health care professional will insert a small
needle into your arm. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes. Make
sure you don't clench your fist during the test, as this can temporarily raise
lactic acid levels.

Blood from an artery has more oxygen than blood from a vein, so your health
care provider may recommend this type of blood test. The sample is usually
taken from an artery inside the wrist. During the procedure, your provider
will insert a needle with a syringe into the artery. You may feel a sharp pain
as the needle goes into the artery. Once the syringe is filled with blood,
your provider will put a bandage over the puncture site. After the procedure,
you or a provider will need to apply firm pressure to the site for 5â10
minutes, or even longer if you are taking a blood-thinning medicine.

If meningitis is suspected, your provider may order a test called a spinal tap
or lumbar puncture to get a sample of your cerebrospinal fluid.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

Your health care provider may tell you to not exercise for several hours
before the test. Exercise can cause a temporary increase in lactic acid
levels.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

A blood test from an artery is more painful than a blood test from a vein, but
this pain usually goes away quickly. You may have some bleeding, bruising, or
soreness at the spot where the needle was put in. Though problems are rare,
you should avoid lifting heavy objects for 24 hours after the test.

## What do the results mean?

A high lactic acid level means you likely have lactic acidosis. There are two
types of lactic acidosis: type A and type B. The cause of your lactic acidosis
depends on which type you have.

Type A is the most common form of the disorder. Conditions that cause type A
lactic acidosis include:

    * Sepsis
    * Shock
    * Heart failure
    * Lung disease
    * Anemia

Type B lactic acidosis may be caused by one of the following conditions:

    * Liver disease
    * Leukemia
    * Kidney disease
    * Strenuous exercise

If you had a spinal tap to check for a meningitis infection, your results may
show:

    * High levels of lactic acid. This probably means you have bacterial meningitis.
    * Normal or slightly high levels of lactic acid. This probably means you have a viral form of the infection.

If you have questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a lactic test?

Certain medicines cause the body to make too much lactic acid. These include
some treatments for HIV and a medicine for type 2 diabetes called metformin.
If you are taking any of these medicines, you may be at a higher risk for
lactic acidosis. Talk to your health care provider if you are concerned about
any medicines you are taking.

## References

    1. AIDSinfo [Internet]. Rockville (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; HIV and Lactic Acidosis [updated 2019 Aug 14; cited 2019 Aug 14]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://aidsinfo.nih.gov/understanding-hiv-aids/fact-sheets/22/68/hiv-and-lactic-acidosis
    2. Allina Health [Internet]. Minneapolis: Allina Health; Blood gases [cited 2019 Aug 14]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://account.allinahealth.org/library/content/1/3855
    3. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Lactate [updated 2018 Dec 19; cited 2019 Aug 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/lactate
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Meningitis and Encephalitis [updated 2018 Feb 2; cited 2019 Aug 14]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/meningitis-and-encephalitis
    5. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Sepsis [updated 2017 Sep 7; cited 2019 Aug 14]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/sepsis
    6. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Shock [updated 2017 Nov 27; cited 2019 Aug 14]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/glossary/shock
    7. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Lactic acidosis: Overview [updated 2019 Aug 14; cited 2019 Aug 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/lactic-acidosis
    8. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Lactic acid test: Overview [updated 2019 Aug 14; cited 2019 Aug 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/lactic-acid-test
    9. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2019 Aug 14]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    10. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Arterial Blood Gases: How It Feels [updated 2018 Sep 5; cited 2019 Aug 14]; [about 6 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/arterial-blood-gas/hw2343.html#hw2395
    11. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Arterial Blood Gases: How It Is Done [updated 2018 Sep 5; cited 2019 Aug 14]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/arterial-blood-gas/hw2343.html#hw2384
    12. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Arterial Blood Gases: Risks [updated 2018 Sep 5; cited 2019 Aug 14]; [about 7 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/arterial-blood-gas/hw2343.html#hw2397
    13. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Lactic Acid: Results [updated 2018 Jun 25; cited 2019 Aug 14]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/lactic-acid/hw7871.html#hw7899
    14. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Lactic Acid: Test Overview [updated 2018 Jun 25; cited 2019 Aug 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/lactic-acid/hw7871.html#hw7874
    15. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Lactic Acid: Why It Is Done [updated 2018 Jun 25; cited 2019 Aug 14]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/lactic-acid/hw7871.html#hw7880

## Related Health Topics

    * Diabetes Medicines
    * Heart Failure
    * HIV/AIDS Medicines
    * Meningitis
    * Sepsis
    * Shock

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Blood Oxygen Level
    * Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) Analysis
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

