Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/glomerular-filtration-rate-gfr-test/    
                                Description: A glomerular filtration rate (GFR) is a test that estimates how much blood passes through filters in the kidneys each minute. It helps diagnose kidney disease in its early stages when it&#39;s most treatable. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Glomerular Filtration Rate (GFR) Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/glomerular-filtration-
rate-gfr-test/

# Glomerular Filtration Rate (GFR) Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a glomerular filtration rate (GFR) test?

A glomerular filtration rate (GFR) is a blood test that checks how well your
kidneys are working. Your kidneys have tiny filters called glomeruli. These
filters help remove waste and excess fluid from the blood. A GFR test
estimates how much blood passes through these filters each minute.

A GFR can be measured directly, but it is a complicated test, requiring
specialized providers. So GFR is most often estimated using a test called an
estimated GFR or eGFR. To get an estimate, your provider will use a method
known as a GFR calculator. A GFR calculator is a type of mathematical formula
that estimates the rate of filtration using some or all of the following
information about you:

    * The results of a blood test that measures creatinine, a waste product filtered by the kidneys
    * Age
    * Weight
    * Height
    * Gender
    * Race

The eGFR is a simple test that can provide very accurate results.

Other names: estimated GFR, eGFR, calculated glomerular filtration rate, cGFR

## What is it used for?

A GFR test is used to help diagnose kidney disease at an early stage, when it
is most treatable. GFR may also be used to monitor people with chronic kidney
disease (CKD) or other conditions that cause kidney damage. These include
diabetes and high blood pressure.

## Why do I need a GFR test?

Early stage kidney disease doesnât usually cause symptoms. But you may need
a GFR test if you are at higher risk of getting kidney disease. Risk factors
include:

    * Diabetes
    * High blood pressure
    * Family history of kidney failure

Later stage kidney disease does cause symptoms. So you may need a GFR test if
you have any of the following symptoms:

    * Urinating more or less often than usual
    * Itching
    * Fatigue
    * Swelling in your arms, legs, or feet
    * Muscle cramps
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Loss of appetite

## What happens during a GFR test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You may need to fast (not eat or drink) or avoid certain foods for several
hours before the test. Your health care provider will let you know if there
are any special instructions to follow.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

Your GFR results may show one of the following:

    * Normalâyou probably donât have kidney disease
    * Below normalâyou may have kidney disease
    * Far below normalâyou may have kidney failure

If you have questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a GFR test?

Although damage to kidneys is usually permanent, you can take steps to prevent
further damage. Steps may include:

    * Blood pressure medicines
    * Medicines to control blood sugar if you have diabetes
    * Lifestyle changes such as getting more exercise and maintaining a healthy weight
    * Limiting alcohol
    * Quitting smoking

If you treat kidney disease early, you may be able to prevent kidney failure.
The only treatment options for kidney failure are dialysis or kidney
transplant.

## References

    1. American Kidney Fund [Internet]. Rockville (MD): American Kidney Fund, Inc.; c2019. Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) [cited 2019 Apr 10]; [about 2 screens], Available from: http://www.kidneyfund.org/kidney-disease/chronic-kidney-disease-ckd
    2. Johns Hopkins Medicine [Internet]. Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins University; c2019. Chronic Kidney Disease [cited 2019 Apr 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/health/conditions-and-diseases/chronic-kidney-disease
    3. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate (eGFR) [updated 2018 Dec 19; cited 2019 Apr 10]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/estimated-glomerular-filtration-rate-egfr
    4. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2019 Apr 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    5. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Chronic Kidney Disease Tests and Diagnosis; 2016 Oct [cited 2019 Apr 10]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/kidney-disease/chronic-kidney-disease-ckd/tests-diagnosis
    6. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Frequently Asked Questions: eGFR [cited 2019 Apr 10]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/communication-programs/nkdep/laboratory-evaluation/frequently-asked-questions
    7. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Glomerular Filtration Rate (GFR) Calculators [cited 2019 Apr 10]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/communication-programs/nkdep/laboratory-evaluation/glomerular-filtration-rate-calculators
    8. National Kidney Foundation [Internet]. New York: National Kidney Foundation Inc., c2019. A to Z Health Guide: About Chronic Kidney Disease [cited 2019 Apr 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.kidney.org/atoz/content/about-chronic-kidney-disease
    9. National Kidney Foundation [Internet]. New York: National Kidney Foundation Inc., c2019. A to Z Health Guide: Estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate (eGFR) [cited 2019 Apr 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.kidney.org/atoz/content/gfr
    10. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida; c2019. Glomerular filtration rate: Overview [updated 2019 Apr 10; cited 2019 Apr 10]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/glomerular-filtration-rate
    11. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Glomerular Filtration Rate [cited 2019 Apr 10]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid=glomerular_filtration_rate
    12. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Glomerular Filtration Rate (GFR): Topic Overview [updated 2018 Mar 15; cited 2019 Apr 10]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/special/glomerular-filtration-rate/aa154102.html

## Related Health Topics

    * Chronic Kidney Disease
    * Diabetes
    * Dialysis
    * High Blood Pressure
    * Kidney Diseases
    * Kidney Failure
    * Kidney Transplantation

## Related Lab Test Information

    * BUN (Blood Urea Nitrogen)
    * Creatinine Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Microalbumin Creatinine Ratio
    * Phosphate in Urine
    * Protein in Urine

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

