Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/antineutrophil-cytoplasmic-antibodies-anca-test/    
                                Description: This test looks for antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA) in your blood. If ANCAs are found, you may have autoimmune vasculitis, a disorder that causes inflammation of the blood vessels. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Antineutrophil Cytoplasmic Antibodies (ANCA) Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/antineutrophil-
cytoplasmic-antibodies-anca-test/

# Antineutrophil Cytoplasmic Antibodies (ANCA) Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is an antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA) test?

This test looks for antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA) in your
blood. Antibodies are proteins that your immune system makes to fight foreign
substances like viruses and bacteria. But ANCAs attack healthy cells known as
neutrophils (a type of white blood cell) by mistake. This can lead to a
disorder known as autoimmune vasculitis. Autoimmune vasculitis causes
inflammation and swelling of the blood vessels.

Blood vessels carry blood from your heart to your organs, tissues, and other
systems, and then back again. Types of blood vessels include arteries, veins,
and capillaries. Inflammation in the blood vessels can cause serious health
problems. Problems vary depending on which blood vessels and body systems are
affected.

There are two main kinds of ANCA. Each targets a specific protein inside white
blood cells:

    * pANCA, which targets a protein called MPO (myeloperoxidase)
    * cANCA, which targets a protein called PR3 (proteinase 3)

The test can show whether you have one or both types of antibodies. This can
help your health care provider diagnose and treat your disorder.

Other names: ANCA antibodies, cANCA pANCA, cytoplasmic neutrophil antibodies,
serum, anticytoplasmic autoantibodies

## What is it used for?

An ANCA test is most often used to find out if you have a type of autoimmune
vasculitis. There are different types of this disorder. They all cause
inflammation and swelling of blood vessels, but each type affects different
blood vessels and parts of the body. Types of autoimmune vasculitis include:

    *  **Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA)**, previously called Wegener's disease. It most often affects the lungs, kidneys, and sinuses.
    *  **Microscopic polyangiitis (MPA).** This disorder can affect several organs in the body, including the lungs, kidneys, nervous system, and skin.
    *  **Eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (EGPA)** , previously called Churg-Strauss syndrome. This disorder usually affects the skin and lungs. It often causes asthma.
    *  **Polyarteritis nodosa (PAN).** This disorder most often affects the heart, kidneys, skin, and central nervous system.

An ANCA test may also be used to monitor treatment of these disorders.

## Why do I need an ANCA test?

Your health care provider may order an ANCA test if you have symptoms of
autoimmune vasculitis. Symptoms include:

    * Fever
    * Fatigue
    * Weight loss
    * Muscle and/or joint aches

Your symptoms may also affect one or more specific organs in your body.
Commonly affected organs and the symptoms they cause include:

    *  **Eyes**
      * Redness
      * Blurred vision
      * Loss of vision
    *  **Ears**
      * Ringing in the ears (tinnitus)
      * Hearing loss
    *  **Sinuses**
      * Sinus pain
      * Runny nose
      * Nose bleeds
    *  **Skin**
      * Rashes
      * Sores or ulcers, a type of deep sore that's slow to heal and/or keeps coming back
    *  **Lungs**
      * Cough
      * Trouble breathing
      * Chest pain
    *  **Kidneys**
      * Blood in the urine
      * Foamy urine, which is caused by protein in the urine
    *  **Nervous system**
      * Numbness and tingling in different parts of the body

## What happens during an ANCA test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for an ANCA test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

If your results were negative, it means your symptoms are probably not due to
autoimmune vasculitis.

If your results were positive, it may mean you have autoimmune vasculitis. It
can also show if cANCAs or pANCAs were found. This can help determine which
type of vasculitis you have.

No matter which type of antibodies were found, you may need an additional
test, known as biopsy, to confirm the diagnosis. A biopsy is a procedure that
removes a small sample of tissue or cells for testing. Your health care
provider may also order more tests to measure the amount of ANCA in your
blood.

If you are currently being treated for autoimmune vasculitis, your results may
show whether your treatment is working.

If you have questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about an ANCA test?

If your ANCA results show you have autoimmune vasculitis, there are ways to
treat and manage the condition. Treatments may include medicine, therapies
that temporarily remove ANCAs from your blood, and/or surgery.

## References

    1. Allina Health [Internet]. Minneapolis: Allina Health; C-ANCA measurement [cited 2019 May 3]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://account.allinahealth.org/library/content/49/150100
    2. Allina Health [Internet]. Minneapolis: Allina Health; P-ANCA measurement [cited 2019 May 3]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://account.allinahealth.org/library/content/49/150470
    3. Cleveland Clinic [Internet]. Cleveland (OH): Cleveland Clinic; c2019. Leg and Foot Ulcers [cited 2019 May 3]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/diseases/17169-leg-and-foot-ulcers
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. ANCA/MPO/PR3 Antibodies; [updated 2019 Apr 29; cited 2019 May 3]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/ancampopr3-antibodies
    5. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Biopsy [updated 2017 Jul 10; cited 2019 May 3]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/glossary/biopsy
    6. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Vasculitis [updated 2017 Sep 8; cited 2019 May 3]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/vasculitis
    7. Mansi IA, Opran A, Rosner F. ANCA-Associated Small-Vessel Vasculitis. Am Fam Physician [Internet]. 2002 Apr 15 [cited 2019 May 3]; 65(8):1615â1621. Available from: https://www.aafp.org/afp/2002/0415/p1615.html
    8. Mayo Clinic Laboratories [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1995â2019. Test ID: ANCA: Cytoplasmic Neutrophil Antibodies, Serum: Clinical and Interpretive [cited 2019 May 3]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayocliniclabs.com/test-catalog/Clinical+and+Interpretive/9441
    9. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2019 May 3]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    10. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Vasculitis [cited 2019 May 3]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/vasculitis
    11. Radice A, Sinico RA. Antineutrophil Cytoplasmic Antibodies (ANCA). Autoimmunity [Internet]. 2005 Feb [cited 2019 May 3]; 38(1): 93â103. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15804710
    12. UNC Kidney Center [Internet]. Chapel Hill (NC): UNC Kidney Center; c2019. ANCA Vasculitis [updated 2018 Sep; cited 2019 May 3]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://unckidneycenter.org/kidneyhealthlibrary/glomerular-disease/anca-vasculitis

## Related Health Topics

    * Autoimmune Diseases
    * Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis
    * Immune System and Disorders
    * Steroids
    * Vasculitis

## Related Lab Test Information

    * ANA (Antinuclear Antibody) Test
    * Blood Differential
    * Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate (ESR)
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Protein in Urine

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 20 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

