Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/immunofixation-ife-blood-test/    
                                Description: An immunofixation blood test measures the amount of certain proteins in the blood. If these protein levels are too high or too low, it can indicate a serious health problem. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Immunofixation (IFE) Blood Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/immunofixation-ife-blood-
test/

# Immunofixation (IFE) Blood Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is an immunofixation (IFE) blood test?

An immunofixation blood test, also known as protein electrophoresis, measures
certain proteins in the blood. Proteins play many important roles, including
providing energy for the body, rebuilding muscles, and supporting the immune
system.

There are two main types of proteins in the blood: albumin and globulin. The
test separates these proteins into subgroups based on their size and
electrical charge. The subgroups are:

    * Albumin
    * Alpha-1 globulin
    * Alpha-2 globulin
    * Beta globulin
    * Gamma globulin

Measuring the proteins in each subgroup can help diagnose a variety of
diseases.

Other names: serum protein electrophoresis, (SPEP), protein electrophoresis,
SPE, immunofixation electrophoresis, IFE, serum immunofixation

## What is it used for?

This test is most often used to help diagnose or monitor a variety of
different conditions. These include:

    * Multiple myeloma, a cancer of the white blood cells
    * Other forms of cancer, such as lymphoma (cancer of the immune system) or leukemia (cancer of blood-forming tissues, such as bone marrow)
    * Kidney disease
    * Liver disease
    * Certain autoimmune diseases and neurological disorders
    * Malnutrition or malabsorption, conditions in which your body is not getting enough nutrients from the foods you eat

## Why do I need an IFE test?

You may need testing if you have symptoms of certain diseases, such as
multiple myeloma, multiple sclerosis, malnutrition, or malabsorption.

Symptoms of multiple myeloma include:

    * Bone pain
    * Fatigue
    * Anemia (low level of red blood cells)
    * Frequent infections
    * Excessive thirst
    * Nausea

Symptoms of multiple sclerosis include:

    * Numbness or tingling in the face, arms and/or legs
    * Trouble walking
    * Fatigue
    * Weakness
    * Dizziness and vertigo
    * Problems controlling urination

Symptoms of malnutrition or malabsorption include:

    * Weakness
    * Fatigue
    * Weight loss
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Bone and joint pain

## What happens during an IFE test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for an immunofixation blood test.

## Are there any risks to an IFE test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

Your results will show that your protein levels are in the normal range, too
high, or too low.

High protein levels may be caused by many conditions. Common causes of high
levels include:

    * Dehydration
    * Liver disease
    * Inflammatory diseases, a condition when the body's immune system attacks healthy tissues by mistake. Inflammatory diseases include rheumatoid arthritis and Crohn's disease. Inflammatory diseases are similar to autoimmune diseases, but they affect different parts of the immune system.
    * Kidney disease
    * High cholesterol
    * Iron-deficiency anemia
    * Multiple myeloma
    * Lymphoma
    * Certain infections

Low protein levels may be caused by many conditions. Common causes of low
levels include:

    * Kidney disease
    * Liver disease
    * Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency, an inherited disorder that can lead to lung disease at an early age
    * Malnutrition
    * Certain autoimmune disorders

Your diagnosis will depend on which specific protein levels were not normal,
and whether the levels were too high or too low. It may also depend on the
unique patterns made by the proteins.

If you have questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about an IFE test?

Immunofixation tests can also be done in urine. Urine IFE tests are often done
if IFE blood test results were not normal.

## References

    1. Allina Health [Internet]. Minneapolis: Allina Health; c2019. Protein electrophoresis-serum; [cited 2019 Dec 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://account.allinahealth.org/library/content/1/3540
    2. Cancer.Net [Internet]. Alexandria (VA): American Society of Clinical Oncology; 2005â2019. Multiple Myeloma: Diagnosis; 2018 Jul [cited 2019 Dec 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.net/cancer-types/multiple-myeloma/diagnosis
    3. Cancer.Net [Internet]. Alexandria (VA): American Society of Clinical Oncology; 2005â2019. Multiple Myeloma: Symptoms and Signs; 2016 Oct [cited 2019 Dec 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.net/cancer-types/multiple-myeloma/symptoms-and-signs
    4. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Protein Electrophoresis; p. 430.
    5. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Alpha-1 Antitrypsin; [updated 2019 Nov 13; cited 2019 Dec 10]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/alpha-1-antitrypsin
    6. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Malabsorption; [updated 2019 Nov 11; cited 2019 Dec 10]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/malabsorption
    7. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Malnutrition; [updated 2019 Nov 11; cited 2019 Dec 10]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/malnutrition
    8. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Protein Electrophoresis, Immunofixation Electrophoresis; [updated 2019 Oct 25; cited 2019 Dec 10]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/protein-electrophoresis-immunofixation-electrophoresis
    9. Maine Health [Internet]. Portland (ME): Maine Health; c2019. Inflammatory Disease/Inflammation; [cited 2019 Dec 18]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://mainehealth.org/services/autoimmune-diseases-rheumatology/inflammatory-diseases
    10. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: leukemia; [cited 2019 Dec 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/def/leukemia
    11. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: lymphoma; [cited 2019 Dec 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/def/lymphoma
    12. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: multiple myeloma; [cited 2019 Dec 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/def/multiple-myeloma
    13. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests; [cited 2020 Jan 5]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    14. National Multiple Sclerosis Society [Internet]. National Multiple Sclerosis Society; MS Symptoms; [cited 2019 Dec 18]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nationalmssociety.org/Symptoms-Diagnosis/MS-Symptoms
    15. Straub RH, Schradin C. Chronic inflammatory systemic diseases: An evolutionary trade-off between acutely beneficial but chronically harmful programs. Evol Med Public Health. [Internet]. 2016 Jan 27 [cited 2019 Dec 18]; 2016 (1):37-51. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4753361
    16. Systemic Autoinflammatory Disease (SAID) Support [Internet]. San Francisco: Said Support; c2013-2016. Autoinflammatory vs. Autoimmune: What is the Difference?; 2014 Mar 14 [cited 2020 Jan 22]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://saidsupport.org/autoinflammatory-vs-autoimmune-what-is-the-difference
    17. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Immunofixation (Blood); [cited 2019 Dec 10]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid=immunofixation_blood
    18. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Serum Protein Electrophoresis (SPEP): Results; [updated 2019 Apr 1; cited 2019 Dec 10]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/serum-protein-electrophoresis/hw43650.html#hw43678
    19. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Serum Protein Electrophoresis (SPEP): Test Overview; [updated 2019 Apr 1; cited 2019 Dec 10]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/serum-protein-electrophoresis/hw43650.html
    20. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Serum Protein Electrophoresis (SPEP): What To Think About; [updated 2019 Apr 1; cited 2019 Dec 10]; [about 10 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/serum-protein-electrophoresis/hw43650.html#hw43681
    21. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Serum Protein Electrophoresis (SPEP): Why It Is Done; [updated 2019 Apr 1; cited 2019 Dec 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/serum-protein-electrophoresis/hw43650.html#hw43669

## Related Health Topics

    * Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Deficiency
    * Autoimmune Diseases
    * Leukemia
    * Lymphoma
    * Malabsorption Syndromes
    * Malnutrition
    * Multiple Myeloma

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Albumin Blood Test
    * Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Test
    * Globulin Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 19 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

