Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/luteinizing-hormone-lh-levels-test/    
                                Description: This test measures the level of luteinizing hormone (LH) in the blood. LH plays an important role in sexual development and functioning. Levels that are too high or too low can cause health problems for men and women, and delayed or early puberty in children. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Luteinizing Hormone (LH) Levels Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/luteinizing-hormone-lh-
levels-test/

# Luteinizing Hormone (LH) Levels Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a luteinizing hormone (LH) levels test?

This test measures the level of luteinizing hormone (LH) in your blood. LH is
made by your pituitary gland, a small gland located underneath the brain. LH
plays an important role in sexual development and functioning.

    * In women, LH helps control the menstrual cycle. It also triggers the release of an egg from the ovary. This is known as ovulation. LH levels quickly rise just before ovulation.
    * In men, LH causes the testicles to make testosterone, which is important for producing sperm. Normally, LH levels in men do not change very much.
    * In children, LH levels are usually low in early childhood, and begin to rise a couple of years before the start of puberty. In girls, LH helps signal the ovaries to make estrogen. In boys, it helps signal the testes to make testosterone.

Too much or too little LH can cause a variety of problems, including
infertility (the inability to get pregnant), menstrual difficulties in women,
low sex drive in men, and early or delayed puberty in children.

Other names: lutropin, interstitial cell stimulating hormone

## What is it used for?

An LH test works closely with another hormone called follicle-stimulating
hormone (FSH) to control sexual functions. So an FSH test is often done along
with an LH test. These tests are used in different ways, depending on whether
you are a woman, man, or child.

In women, these tests are most often used to:

    * Help find the cause of infertility
    * Find out when ovulation occurs, this is the time when you are most likely to get pregnant.
    * Find the reason for irregular or stopped menstrual periods.
    * Confirm the start of menopause, or perimenopause. Menopause is the time in a woman's life when her menstrual periods have stopped and she can't become pregnant anymore. It usually starts when a woman is around 50 years old. Perimenopause is the transition period before menopause. It can last for several years. LH testing may be done towards the end of this transition.

In men, these tests are most often used to:

    * Help find the cause of infertility
    * Find the reason for a low sperm count
    * Find the reason for low sex drive

In children, these tests are most often used to help diagnose early or delayed
puberty.

    * Puberty is considered early if it starts before age 9 in girls and before age 10 in boys.
    * Puberty is considered delayed if hasn't started by age 13 in girls and by age 14 in boys.

## Why do I need an LH test?

If you are a woman, you may need this test if:

    * You've been unable to get pregnant after 12 months of trying.
    * Your menstrual cycle is irregular.
    * Your periods have stopped. The test may be used to find out if you have gone through menopause or are in perimenopause.

If you are a man, you may need this test if:

    * You've been unable to get your partner pregnant after 12 months of trying.
    * Your sex drive is decreased.

Both men and women may need testing if they have symptoms of a pituitary
disorder. These include some of the symptoms listed above, as well as:

    * Fatigue
    * Weakness
    * Weight loss
    * Decreased appetite

Your child may need an LH test if he or she is does not seem to be starting
puberty at the right age (either too early or too late).

## What happens during an LH levels test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

If you are a woman that has not gone through menopause, your provider may want
to schedule your test at a specific time during your menstrual cycle.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

The meaning of your results will depend on whether you are a woman, man, or
child.

If you are woman, high LH levels may mean you:

    * Are not ovulating. If you are of childbearing age, this may mean you have a problem in your ovaries. If you are older, it may mean you have started menopause or are in perimenopause.
    * Have polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). PCOS is a common hormone disorder affecting childbearing women. It is one of the leading causes of female infertility.
    * Have Turner syndrome, a genetic disorder affects sexual development in females. It often causes infertility.

If you are woman, low LH levels may mean:

    * Your pituitary gland is not working correctly.
    * You have an eating disorder.
    * You have malnutrition.

If you are a man, high LH levels may mean:

    * Your testicles have been damaged due chemotherapy, radiation, infection, or alcohol abuse.
    * You have Klinefelter's syndrome, a genetic disorder that affects sexual development in males. It often causes infertility

If you are a man, low LH levels may mean you have a disorder of the pituitary
gland or the hypothalamus, a part of the brain that controls the pituitary
gland and other important body functions.

In children, high LH levels, along with high levels of follicle-stimulating
hormone, may mean puberty is about to start or has already started. If this is
happening before age 9 in a girl or before age 10 in a boy (precocious
puberty), it may be a sign of:

    * A disorder of the central nervous systems
    * A brain injury

Low LH and follicle-stimulating hormone levels in children may mean be a sign
of delayed puberty. Delayed puberty may be caused by:

    * A disorder of the ovaries or testicles
    * Turner syndrome in girls
    * Klinefelter's syndrome in boys
    * An infection
    * A hormone deficiency
    * An eating disorder

If you have questions about your results or child's results, talk to your
health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about an LH test?

There is an at-home test that measures LH levels in urine. The kit is designed
to detect the rise in LH that happens just before ovulation. This test may
help you figure out when you will be ovulating and have the best chances of
getting pregnant. But you should not use this test to prevent pregnancy. It is
not reliable for that purpose.

## References

    1. FDA: US Food and Drug Administration [Internet]. Silver Spring (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Ovulation (Urine Test); [cited 2019 Aug 11]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/home-use-tests/ovulation-urine-test
    2. Hormone Health Network [Internet]. Endocrine Society; c2019. Delayed Puberty; [updated 2019 May; cited 2019 Aug 11]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.hormone.org/diseases-and-conditions/puberty/delayed-puberty
    3. Hormone Health Network [Internet]. Endocrine Society; c2019. LH: Luteinizing Hormone; [updated 2018 Nov; cited 2019 Aug 11]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.hormone.org/your-health-and-hormones/glands-and-hormones-a-to-z/hormones/luteinizing-hormone
    4. Hormone Health Network [Internet]. Endocrine Society; c2019. Pituitary Gland; [updated 2019 Jan; cited 2019 Aug 11]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.hormone.org/your-health-and-hormones/glands-and-hormones-a-to-z/glands/pituitary-gland
    5. Kids Health from Nemours [Internet]. Jacksonville (FL): The Nemours Foundation; c1995â2019. Blood Test: Luteinizing Hormone (LH); [cited 2019 Aug 11]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://kidshealth.org/en/parents/blood-test-lh.html
    6. Kids Health from Nemours [Internet]. Jacksonville (FL): The Nemours Foundation; c1995â2019. Precocious Puberty; [cited 2019 Aug 11]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://kidshealth.org/en/parents/precocious.html
    7. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Infertility; [updated 2017 Nov 27; cited 2019 Aug 11]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/infertility
    8. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Luteinizing Hormone (LH); [updated 2019 Jun 5; cited 2019 Aug 11]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/luteinizing-hormone-lh
    9. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Menopause; [updated 2018 Dec 17; cited 2019 Aug 11]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/menopause
    10. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS); [updated 2019 Jul 29; cited 2019 Aug 11]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/polycystic-ovary-syndrome
    11. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Turner Syndrome; [updated 2017 Jul 10; cited 2019 Aug 11]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/glossary/turner
    12. Mayo Clinic: Mayo Medical Laboratories [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1995â2019. Test ID: LH: Luteinizing Hormone (LH), Serum; [cited 2019 Aug 11]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayocliniclabs.com/test-catalog/Clinical+and+Interpretive/602752
    13. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests; [cited 2019 Aug 11]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    14. OWH: Office on Women's Health [Internet]. Washington D.C. :U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Menopause Basics; [updated 2019 Mar 18; cited 2019 Aug 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.womenshealth.gov/menopause/menopause-basics#4
    15. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Klinefelter syndrome; [updated 2019 Aug 14; cited 2019 Aug 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/klinefelter-syndrome
    16. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Luteinizing hormone (LH) blood test: Overview; [updated 2019 Aug 10; cited 2019 Aug 11]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/luteinizing-hormone-lh-blood-test
    17. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Turner syndrome; [updated 2019 Aug 14; cited 2019 Aug 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/turner-syndrome
    18. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Luteinizing Hormone (Blood); [cited 2019 Aug11]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?ContentTypeID=167&ContentID=luteinizing_hormone_blood
    19. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Luteinizing Hormone: How It Is Done; [updated 2018 May 14; cited 2019 Aug 11]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/luteinizing-hormone/hw8017.html#hw8039
    20. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Luteinizing Hormone: Results; [updated 2018 May 14; cited 2019 Aug 11]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/luteinizing-hormone/hw8017.html#hw8079
    21. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Luteinizing Hormone: Test Overview; [updated 2018 May 14; cited 2019 Aug 11]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/luteinizing-hormone/hw8017.html#hw8020
    22. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Luteinizing Hormone: Why It Is Done; [updated 2018 May 14; cited 2019 Aug 11]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/luteinizing-hormone/hw8017.html#hw8027

## Related Health Topics

    * Female Infertility
    * Hormones
    * Male Infertility
    * Menopause
    * Menstruation
    * Ovarian Disorders
    * Pituitary Disorders
    * Puberty
    * Testicular Disorders

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Estrogen Levels Test
    * Follicle-Stimulating Hormone (FSH) Levels Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Progesterone Test
    * Prolactin Levels
    * SHBG Blood Test
    * Testosterone Levels Test

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

