Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/follicle-stimulating-hormone-fsh-levels-test/    
                                Description: This test measures the level of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) in the blood. FSH plays an important role in sexual development and function. FSH levels that are too high or too low can cause health problems for men and women and delayed or early puberty in children. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Follicle-Stimulating Hormone (FSH) Levels Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/follicle-stimulating-
hormone-fsh-levels-test/

# Follicle-Stimulating Hormone (FSH) Levels Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) levels test?

This test measures the level of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) in your
blood. FSH is made by your pituitary gland, a small gland located underneath
the brain. FSH plays an important role in sexual development and functioning.

    * In women, FSH helps control the menstrual cycle and stimulates the growth of eggs in the ovaries. FSH levels in women change throughout the menstrual cycle, with the highest levels happening just before an egg is released by the ovary. This is known as ovulation.
    * In men, FSH helps control the production of sperm. Normally, FSH levels in men do not change very much.
    * In children, FSH levels are usually low until puberty, when levels begin to rise. In girls, it helps signal the ovaries to make estrogen. In boys, it helps signal the testes to make testosterone.

Too much or too little FSH can cause a variety of problems, including
infertility (the inability to get pregnant), menstrual difficulties in women,
low sex drive in men, and early or delayed puberty in children.

Other names: follitropin, FSH, follicle-stimulating hormone: serum

## What is it used for?

FSH works closely with another hormone called luteinizing hormone to control
sexual functions. So a luteinizing hormone test is often done along with an
FSH test. These tests are used in different ways, depending on whether you are
a woman, man, or child.

In women, these tests are most often used to:

    * Help find the cause of infertility
    * Find out if there is a problem with ovarian function
    * Find the reason for irregular or stopped menstrual periods
    * Confirm the start of menopause, or perimenopause. Menopause is the time in a woman's life when her menstrual periods have stopped and she can't become pregnant anymore. It usually starts when a woman is around 50 years old. Perimenopause is the transition period before menopause. It can last for several years. FSH testing may be done towards the end of this transition.

In men, these tests are most often used to:

    * Help find the cause of infertility
    * Find the reason for a low sperm count
    * Find out if there is a problem with the testicles

In children, these tests are most often used to help diagnose early or delayed
puberty.

    * Puberty is considered early if it starts before age 9 in girls and before age 10 in boys.
    * Puberty is considered delayed if it hasn't started by age 13 in girls and by age 14 in boys.

## Why do I need an FSH levels test?

If you are a woman, you may need this test if:

    * You've been unable to get pregnant after 12 months of trying.
    * Your menstrual cycle is irregular.
    * Your periods have stopped. The test may be used to find out if you have gone through menopause or are in perimenopause

If you are a man, you may need this test if:

    * You've been unable to get your partner pregnant after 12 months of trying.
    * Your sex drive is decreased.

Both men and women may need testing if they have symptoms of a pituitary
disorder. These include some of the symptoms listed above, as well as:

    * Fatigue
    * Weakness
    * Weight loss
    * Decreased appetite

Your child may need an FSH test if he or she does not seem to be starting
puberty at the right age (either too early or too late).

## What happens during an FSH levels test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

If you are a woman who has not gone through menopause, your provider may want
to schedule your test at a specific time during your menstrual cycle.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

The meaning of your results will depend on whether you are a woman, man, or
child.

If you are a woman, high FSH levels may mean you have:

    * Primary ovarian insufficiency (POI), also known as premature ovarian failure. POI is the loss of ovarian function before the age of 40.
    * Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), a common hormonal disorder affecting childbearing women. It is one of the leading causes of female infertility.
    * Started menopause or are in perimenopause
    * An ovarian tumor
    * Turner syndrome, a genetic disorder that affects sexual development in females. It often causes infertility.

If you are a woman, low FSH levels may mean:

    * Your ovaries are not making enough eggs.
    * Your pituitary gland is not working correctly.
    * You have a problem with your hypothalamus, a part of the brain that controls the pituitary gland and other important body functions.
    * You are very underweight.

If you are a man, high FSH levels may mean:

    * Your testicles have been damaged due to chemotherapy, radiation, infection, or alcohol abuse.
    * You have Klinefelter syndrome, a genetic disorder affects sexual development in males. It often causes infertility.

If you are a man, low FSH levels may mean you have a disorder of the pituitary
gland or hypothalamus.

In children, high FSH levels, along with high levels of luteinizing hormone,
may mean puberty is about to start or has already started. If this is
happening before age 9 in a girl or before age 10 in a boy (precocious
puberty), it may be a sign of:

    * A disorder of the central nervous system
    * A brain injury

Low FSH and luteinizing hormone levels in children may be a sign of delayed
puberty. Delayed puberty may be caused by:

    * A disorder of the ovaries or testicles
    * Turner syndrome in girls
    * Klinefelter syndrome in boys
    * An infection
    * A hormone deficiency
    * An eating disorder

If you have questions about your results or your child's results, talk to your
health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about an FSH levels test?

There is an at-home test that measures FSH levels in urine. The kit is
designed for women who want to find out if certain symptoms such as irregular
periods, vaginal dryness, and hot flashes may be due to menopause or
perimenopause. The test can show whether you have high FSH levels, a sign of
menopause or perimenopause. But it doesn't diagnose either condition. After
taking the test, you should talk with your health care provider about the
results.

## References

    1. FDA: U.S. Food and Drug Administration [Internet]. Silver Spring (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Menopause [cited 2019 Aug 6]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/home-use-tests/menopause
    2. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Follicle Stimulating Hormone (FSH), Serum; p. 306â7.
    3. Hormone Health Network [Internet]. Endocrine Society; c2019. Delayed Puberty [updated 2019 May; cited 2019 Aug 6]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.hormone.org/diseases-and-conditions/puberty/delayed-puberty
    4. Hormone Health Network [Internet]. Endocrine Society; c2019. Pituitary Gland [updated 2019 Jan; cited 2019 Aug 6]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.hormone.org/your-health-and-hormones/glands-and-hormones-a-to-z/glands/pituitary-gland
    5. Kids Health from Nemours [Internet]. Jacksonville (FL): The Nemours Foundation; c1995â2019. Blood Test: Follicle Stimulating Hormone (FSH) [cited 2019 Aug 6]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://kidshealth.org/en/parents/blood-test-fsh.html
    6. Kids Health from Nemours [Internet]. Jacksonville (FL): The Nemours Foundation; c1995â2019. Precocious Puberty [cited 2019 Aug 6]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://kidshealth.org/en/parents/precocious.html
    7. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Follicle- Stimulating Hormone (FSH) [updated 2019 Jun 5; cited 2019 Aug 6]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/follicle-stimulating-hormone-fsh
    8. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Infertility [updated 2017 Nov 27; cited 2019 Aug 6]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/infertility
    9. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Polycystic Ovary Syndrome [updated 2019 Jul 29; cited 2019 Aug 6]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/polycystic-ovary-syndrome
    10. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Turner Syndrome [updated 2017 Jul 10; cited 2019 Aug 6]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/glossary/turner
    11. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2019 Aug 6]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    12. OWH: Office on Women's Health [Internet]. Washington D.C. :U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Menopause Basics; [updated 2019 Mar 18; cited 2019 Aug 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.womenshealth.gov/menopause/menopause-basics#4
    13. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) blood test: Overview [updated 2019 Aug 6; cited 2019 Aug 6]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/follicle-stimulating-hormone-fsh-blood-test
    14. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Klinefelter syndrome; [updated 2019 Aug 14; cited 2019 Aug 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/klinefelter-syndrome
    15. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Turner syndrome; [updated 2019 Aug 14; cited 2019 Aug 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/turner-syndrome
    16. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Follicle-Stimulating Hormone [cited 2019 Aug 6]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid=follicle_stimulating_hormone
    17. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Follicle-Stimulating Hormone: Results [updated 2018 May 14; cited 2019 Aug 6]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/follicle-stimulating-hormone/hw7924.html#hw7953
    18. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Follicle-Stimulating Hormone: Test Overview [updated 2018 May 14; cited 2019 Aug 6]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/follicle-stimulating-hormone/hw7924.html#hw7927
    19. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Follicle-Stimulating Hormone: Why It Is Done [updated 2018 May 14; cited 2019 Aug 6]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/follicle-stimulating-hormone/hw7924.html#hw7931

## Related Health Topics

    * Female Infertility
    * Hormones
    * Male Infertility
    * Menopause
    * Menstruation
    * Ovarian Disorders
    * Pituitary Disorders
    * Puberty
    * Testicular Disorders

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Estrogen Levels Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Luteinizing Hormone (LH) Levels Test
    * Progesterone Test
    * Prolactin Levels
    * SHBG Blood Test
    * Testosterone Levels Test

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

