Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/chickenpox-and-shingles-tests/    
                                Description: These tests check to see if you are or have ever been infected with the varicella zoster virus, which causes chickenpox and shingles. Both diseases are uncomfortable but are usually not serious. But they can cause complications in certain high-risk groups. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Chickenpox and Shingles Tests

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/chickenpox-and-shingles-
tests/

# Chickenpox and Shingles Tests

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What are chickenpox and shingles tests?

These tests check to see if you are or have ever been infected with the
varicella zoster virus (VZV). This virus causes chickenpox and shingles. When
you are first infected with VZV, you get chickenpox. Once you get chickenpox,
you can't get it again. The virus remains in your nervous system but is
dormant (inactive). Later in life, VZV can become active and can cause
shingles. Unlike chicken pox, you can get shingles more than once, but it is
rare.

Both chickenpox and shingles cause blistering skin rashes. Chickenpox is a
highly contagious disease that causes red, itchy sores (pox) all over the
body. It used to be a very common childhood disease, infecting nearly all
children in the United States. But since a chickenpox vaccine was introduced
in 1995, there have been far fewer cases. Chickenpox may be uncomfortable, but
it's usually a mild illness in healthy children. But it can be serious for
adults, pregnant women, newborns, and people with weakened immune systems.

Shingles is a disease that only affects people who once had chickenpox. It
causes a painful, burning rash that may stay in one part of the body or spread
to many parts of the body. Nearly one-third of people in the United States
will get shingles at some point in their lifetime, most often after the age of
50. Most people who develop shingles recover in three to five weeks, but it
sometimes causes long-term pain and other health problems.

Other names: varicella zoster virus antibody, serum varicella immunoglobulin G
antibody level, VZV antibodies IgG and IgM, herpes zoster

## What are they used for?

Health care providers can usually diagnose chickenpox or shingles with a
visual examination. Tests are sometimes ordered to check for immunity to the
varicella zoster virus (VZV). You have immunity if you've had chickenpox
before or have had the chickenpox vaccine. If you have immunity it means you
can't get chickenpox, but you can still get shingles later in life.

Tests may be done on people who don't have or are unsure about immunity and
are at higher risk of complications from VZV. These include:

    * Pregnant women
    * Newborns, if the mother is infected
    * Teen and adults with symptoms of chickenpox
    * People with HIV/AIDS or another condition that weakens the immune system

## Why do I need a chickenpox or shingles test?

You may need a chickenpox or shingles test if you are at risk for
complications, are not immune to VZV, and/or have symptoms of infection.
Symptoms of the two diseases are similar and include:

    * Red, blistering rash. Chickenpox rashes often appear all over the body and are usually very itchy. Shingles sometimes appear in just one area and are often painful.
    * Fever
    * Headache
    * Sore throat

You may also need this test if you are in a high-risk group and were recently
exposed to chickenpox or shingles. You can't catch shingles from another
person. But the shingles virus (VZV) can be spread and cause chickenpox in
someone who doesn't have immunity.

## What happens during chickenpox and shingles testing?

You will need to provide a sample of blood from your vein or from the fluid in
one of your blisters. Blood tests check for antibodies to the VZV. Blister
tests check for the virus itself.

**For a blood test from a vein** , a health care professional will take a
blood sample from a vein in your arm, using a small needle. After the needle
is inserted, a small amount of blood will be collected into a test tube or
vial. You may feel a little sting when the needle goes in or out.

**For a blister test** , a health care provider will gently press a cotton
swab on a blister to collect a sample of fluid for testing.

Both types of tests are quick, usually taking less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't any special preparations for a blood or blister test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

After a blood test, you may have slight pain or bruising at the spot where the
needle was put in, but most symptoms go away quickly. There is no risk to
having a blister test.

## What do the results mean?

If you have symptoms and results show VZV antibodies or the virus itself, it's
likely you have chickenpox or shingles. Your diagnosis of either chickenpox or
shingles will depend on your age and specific symptoms. If your results show
antibodies or the virus itself and you don't have symptoms, you either once
had chickenpox or received the chickenpox vaccine.

If you are diagnosed with an infection and are in a high-risk group, your
health care provider may prescribe antiviral medicines. Early treatment can
prevent serious and painful complications.

Most healthy children and adults with chickenpox will recover from chickenpox
within a week or two. Home treatment can help relieve symptoms. More serious
cases may be treated with antiviral medicines. Shingles may also be treated
with antiviral medicines as well as pain relievers.

If you have questions about your results or your child's results, talk to your
health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about chickenpox and shingles tests?

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends the chickenpox
vaccine for children, teens, and adults who never had chickenpox or the
chickenpox vaccine. Some schools require this vaccine for admittance. Check
with your child's school and your child's health care provider for more
information.

The CDC also recommends that healthy adults age 50 and older get a shingles
vaccine even if they've already had shingles. The vaccine can prevent you from
having another outbreak. There are currently two types of shingles vaccines
available. To learn more about these vaccines, talk to your health care
provider.

## References

    1. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; About Chickenpox; [cited 2019 Oct 23]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/chickenpox/about/index.html
    2. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Chickenpox Vaccination: What Everyone Should Know; [cited 2019 Oct 23]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/vpd/varicella/public/index.html
    3. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Shingles: Transmission; [cited 2019 Oct 23]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/shingles/about/transmission.html
    4. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What Everyone Should Know About Shingles Vaccines; [cited 2019 Oct 23]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/vpd/shingles/public/index.html
    5. Cleveland Clinic [Internet]. Cleveland (OH): Cleveland Clinic; c2019. Chickenpox: Overview; [cited 2019 Oct 23]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/diseases/4017-chickenpox
    6. Cleveland Clinic [Internet]. Cleveland (OH): Cleveland Clinic; c2019. Shingles: Overview; [cited 2019 Oct 23]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/diseases/11036-shingles
    7. Familydoctor.org [Internet]. Leawood (KS): American Academy of Family Physicians; c2019. Chickenpox; [updated 2018 Nov 3; cited 2019 Oct 23]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://familydoctor.org/condition/chickenpox
    8. Familydoctor.org [Internet]. Leawood (KS): American Academy of Family Physicians; c2019. Shingles; [updated 2017 Sep 5; cited 2019 Oct 23]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://familydoctor.org/condition/shingles
    9. Kids Health from Nemours [Internet]. Jacksonville (FL): The Nemours Foundation; c1995â2019. Shingles; [cited 2019 Oct 23]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://kidshealth.org/en/parents/shingles.html
    10. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Chickenpox and Shingles Tests; [updated 2019 Jul 24; cited 2019 Oct 23]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/chickenpox-and-shingles-tests
    11. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2019. Chickenpox; [updated 2018 May; cited 2019 Oct 23]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/infections/herpesvirus-infections/chickenpox
    12. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Varicella-Zoster Virus Antibody; [cited 2019 Oct 23]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid=varicella_zoster_antibody
    13. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Chickenpox (Varicella): Exams and Tests; [updated 2018 Dec 12; cited 2019 Oct 23]; [about 9 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/major/chickenpox-varicella/hw208307.html#hw208406
    14. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Chickenpox (Varicella): Topic Overview; [updated 2018 Dec 12; cited 2019 Oct 23]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/major/chickenpox-varicella/hw208307.html
    15. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Herpes Tests: How It Is Done; [updated 2018 Sep 11; cited 2019 Oct 23]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/herpes-tests/hw264763.html#hw264785
    16. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Shingles: Exams and Tests; [updated 2019 Jun 9; cited 2019 Oct 23]; [about 9 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/major/shingles/hw75433.html#aa29674
    17. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Shingles: Topic Overview; [updated 2019 Jun 9; cited 2019 Oct 23]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/major/shingles/hw75433.html#hw75435

## Related Health Topics

    * Blisters
    * Chickenpox
    * Immunization
    * Rashes
    * Shingles
    * Viral Infections

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Herpes (HSV) Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Mononucleosis (Mono) Tests

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 20 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

