Link: https://medlineplus.gov/about/using/citation/    
                                Description: Learn how to cite information found on individual pages on MedlinePlus using the citation style recommended by the National Library of Medicine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

About MedlinePlus ->

Using MedlinePlus ->

Citing MedlinePlus

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/about/using/citation/

# Citing MedlinePlus

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## Citing an Individual Page on MedlinePlus

If you wish to cite an individual page on MedlinePlus, the National Library of
Medicine recommends the citation style below, based on Chapter 25, "Web
Sites," in Citing Medicine: The NLM Style Guide for Authors, Editors, and
Publishers (2nd edition, 2007).

This style, like many other citation styles, requires that for online
references you include the date you accessed the information. In the following
examples, replace the date after the word âcitedâ with the latest date you
saw the information online. You will also need to indicate the date that the
page was last updated and the date it was last reviewed. These dates are
available at the bottom of each applicable page on MedlinePlus.

### Homepage

MedlinePlus [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Library of Medicine (US);
[updated 2019 Aug 27; cited 2019 Aug 30]. Available from:
https://medlineplus.gov/.

### Health Topic page

 _Begin by citing the MedlinePlus homepage, then add information about the
topic being cited:_

MedlinePlus [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Library of Medicine (US);
[updated 2019 Aug 27]. Heart attack; [updated 2019 Apr 30; reviewed 2016 Aug
25; cited 2019 Aug 30]; [about 5 p.]. Available from:
https://medlineplus.gov/heartattack.html

### Drug Information

 _Begin by citing the AHFS Patient Medication Information database, then add
information about the drug being cited:_

AHFS Patient Medication Information [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): American
Society of Health-System Pharmacists, Inc.; c2019. Protriptyline; [updated
2019 Jul 22; reviewed 2018 Jul 5; cited 2019 Aug 30]; [about 5 p.]. Available
from: https://medlineplus.gov/druginfo/meds/a604025.html

### Encyclopedia

 _Begin by citing the A.D.A.M. Medical Encyclopedia, then add information
about the entry being cited:_

A.D.A.M. Medical Encyclopedia [Internet]. Atlanta (GA): A.D.A.M., Inc.;
c1997-2019. Nail abnormalities; [updated 2019 Jul 31; reviewed 2019 Apr 16;
cited 2019 Aug 30]; [about 4 p.]. Available from:
https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003247.htm

### Herb and Supplement Information

 _Begin by citing Natural Medicines Comprehensive Database Consumer Version,
then add information about the entry being cited:_

Natural Medicines Comprehensive Database Consumer Version [Internet]. Stockton
(CA): Therapeutic Research Faculty; c1995-2018. Clove; [updated 2019 Aug 7;
reviewed 2019 Mar 11; cited 2019 Aug 30]; [about 4 p.]. Available from:
https://medlineplus.gov/druginfo/natural/251.html

## Linking to MedlinePlus from XML Files or Web Service

If you are linking to MedlinePlus or using data from our XML files or web
service, please cite, attribute, or otherwise clearly indicate that the
content or link is from MedlinePlus.gov. You can use the following text to
describe MedlinePlus:

MedlinePlus brings together authoritative health information from the National
Library of Medicine (NLM), the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and other
government agencies and health-related organizations.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 7 November 2019

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

