Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/parathyroid-hormone-pth-test/    
                                Description: This test measures the level of parathyroid hormone (PTH) in your blood. PTH controls the level of calcium in the blood. Too much or little calcium in blood can cause serious health problems. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Parathyroid Hormone (PTH) Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/parathyroid-hormone-pth-
test/

# Parathyroid Hormone (PTH) Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a parathyroid hormone (PTH) test?

This test measures the level of parathyroid hormone (PTH) in the blood. PTH,
also known as parathormone, is made by your parathyroid glands. These are four
pea-sized glands in your neck. PTH controls the level of calcium in the blood.
Calcium is a mineral that keeps your bones and teeth healthy and strong. It's
also essential for the proper functioning of your nerves, muscles, and heart.

If calcium blood levels are too low, your parathyroid glands will release PTH
into the blood. This causes calcium levels to rise. If calcium blood levels
are too high, these glands will stop making PTH.

PTH levels that are too high or too low can cause serious health problems.

Other names: parathormone, intact PTH

## What is it used for?

A PTH test is most often used along with calcium testing to:

    * Diagnose hyperparathyroidism, a condition in which your parathyroid glands produce too much parathyroid hormone
    * Diagnose hypoparathyroidism, a condition in which your parathyroid glands produce too little parathyroid hormone
    * Find out whether abnormal calcium levels are being caused by a problem with your parathyroid glands
    * Monitor kidney disease

## Why do I need a PTH test?

You may need a PTH test if your results were not normal on a previous calcium
test. You may also need this test if you have symptoms of having too much or
too little calcium in your blood.

Symptoms of too much calcium include:

    * Bones that break easily
    * More frequent urination
    * Increased thirst
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Fatigue
    * Kidney stones

Symptoms of too little calcium include:

    * Tingling in your fingers and/or toes
    * Muscle cramps
    * Irregular heartbeat

## What happens during a PTH test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You probably won't need any special preparations for a PTH test, but check
with your health care provider. Some providers may ask you to fast (not eat or
drink) before your test, or may want you to take the test at a certain time of
day.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

If your test shows you have a higher than normal level of PTH, it may mean you
have:

    * Hyperparathyroidism
    * A benign (noncancerous) tumor of the parathyroid gland
    * Kidney disease
    * A vitamin D deficiency
    * A disorder that makes you unable to absorb calcium from food

If your test shows you have a lower than normal level of PTH, it may mean you
have:

    * Hypoparathyroidism
    * An overdose of vitamin D or calcium

If you have questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a PTH test?

PTH also plays an important role in controlling the levels of phosphorus and
vitamin D in the blood. If your PTH test results were not normal, your
provider may order phosphorus and/or vitamin D tests to help make a diagnosis.

## References

    1. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Parathyroid Hormone; p. 398.
    2. Hormone Health Network [Internet]. Endocrine Society; c2019. What is Parathyroid Hormone? [updated 2018 Nov; cited 2019 Jul 28]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.hormone.org/your-health-and-hormones/glands-and-hormones-a-to-z/hormones/parathyroid-hormone
    3. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Parathyroid Diseases [updated 2019 Jul 15; cited 2019 Jul 28]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/parathyroid-diseases
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Parathyroid Hormone (PTH) [updated 2018 Dec 21; cited 2019 Jul 28]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/parathyroid-hormone-pth
    5. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2019 Jun 28]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    6. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Hyperthyroidism (Overactive Thyroid); 2016 Aug [cited 2019 Jul 28]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/endocrine-diseases/hyperthyroidism
    7. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Primary Hyperparathyroidism; 2019 Mar [cited 2019 Jul 28]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/endocrine-diseases/primary-hyperparathyroidism#whatdo
    8. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Parathyroid hormone (PTH) blood test: Overview [updated 2019 Jul 27; cited 2019 Jul 28]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/parathyroid-hormone-pth-blood-test
    9. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Parathyroid Hormone [cited 2019 Jul 28]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid=parathyroid_hormone
    10. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Parathyroid Hormone: Results [updated 2018 Nov 6; cited 2019 Jul 28]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/parathyroid-hormone-pth/hw8101.html#hw8128
    11. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Parathyroid Hormone: Test Overview [updated 2018 Nov 6; cited 2019 Jul 28]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/parathyroid-hormone-pth/hw8101.html
    12. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Parathyroid Hormone: Why It is Done [updated 2018 Nov 6; cited 2019 Jul 28]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/parathyroid-hormone-pth/hw8101.html#hw8110

## Related Health Topics

    * Bone Diseases
    * Calcium
    * Kidney Diseases
    * Parathyroid Disorders
    * Vitamin D

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Calcium Blood Test
    * Calcium in Urine Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Phosphate in Blood
    * Phosphate in Urine
    * Vitamin D Test

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

