Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/electrolyte-panel/    
                                Description: An electrolyte panel measures the level of the body&#39;s main electrolytes. Electrolytes are electrically charged minerals that help control many important functions in the body. Levels that are too high or too low can indicate a serious health problem. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Electrolyte Panel

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/electrolyte-panel/

# Electrolyte Panel

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is an electrolyte panel?

Electrolytes are electrically charged minerals that help control the amount of
fluids and the balance of acids and bases in your body. They also help control
muscle and nerve activity, heart rhythm, and other important functions. An
electrolyte panel, also known as a serum electrolyte test, is a blood test
that measures levels of the body's main electrolytes:

    * **Sodium**, which helps control the amount of fluid in the body. It also helps your nerves and muscles work properly.
    * **Chloride**, which also helps control the amount of fluid in the body. In addition, it helps maintain healthy blood volume and blood pressure.
    * **Potassium**, which helps your heart and muscles work properly.
    * **Bicarbonate**, which helps maintain the body's acid and base balance. It also plays an important role in moving carbon dioxide through the bloodstream.

Abnormal levels of any of these electrolytes can be a sign of a serious health
problem, including kidney disease, high blood pressure, and a life-threatening
irregularity in heart rhythm.

Other names: serum electrolyte test, lytes, sodium (Na), potassium (K),
chloride (Cl), carbon dioxide (CO2)

## What is it used for?

An electrolyte panel is often part of a routine blood screening or a
comprehensive metabolic panel. The test may also be used to find out if your
body has a fluid imbalance or an imbalance in acid and base levels.

Electrolytes are usually measured together. But sometimes they are tested
individually. Separate testing may be done if a provider suspects a problem
with a specific electrolyte.

## Why do I need an electrolyte panel?

You may need this test if you have symptoms indicating that your body's
electrolytes may be out of balance. These include:

    * Nausea and/or vomiting
    * Confusion
    * Weakness
    * Irregular heartbeat (arrhythmia)

## What happens during an electrolyte panel?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't any special preparations for an electrolyte panel.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

Your results will include measurements for each electrolyte. Abnormal
electrolyte levels can be caused by several different conditions, including:

    * Dehydration
    * Kidney disease
    * Heart disease
    * Diabetes
    * Acidosis, a condition in which you have too much acid in your blood. It can cause nausea, vomiting, and fatigue.
    * Alkalosis, a condition in which you have too much base in your blood. It can cause irritability, muscle twitching, and tingling in the fingers and toes.

Your specific results will depend on which electrolyte is affected and whether
levels are too low or too high. If your electrolyte levels were not in the
normal range, it doesn't necessarily mean you have a medical problem needing
treatment. Many factors can affect electrolyte levels. These include taking in
too much fluid or losing fluid because of vomiting or diarrhea. Also, certain
medicines such as antacids and blood pressure medicines may cause abnormal
results.

If you have questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about an electrolyte panel?

Your health care provider may order another test, called an anion gap, along
with your electrolyte panel. Some electrolytes have a positive electric
charge. Others have a negative electric charge. The anion gap is a measurement
of the difference between the negatively charged and positively charged
electrolytes. If the anion gap is either too high or too low, it may be a sign
of a serious health problem.

## References

    1. Health Testing Centers [Internet]. Fort Lauderdale (FL): Health Testing Centers.com; c2019. Electrolyte Panel; [cited 2019 Oct 9]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.healthtestingcenters.com/test/electrolyte-panel
    2. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Acidosis and Alkalosis; [updated 2018 Oct 12; cited 2019 Oct 9]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/acidosis-and-alkalosis
    3. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Bicarbonate (Total CO2); [updated 2019 Sep 20; cited 2019 Oct 9]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/bicarbonate-total-co2
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Electrolytes and Anion Gap; [updated 2019 Sep 5; cited 2019 Oct 9]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/electrolytes-and-anion-gap
    5. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests; [cited 2019 Oct 9]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    6. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Electrolytes: Overview; [updated 2019 Oct 9; cited 2019 Oct 9]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/electrolytes
    7. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Electrolytes; [cited 2019 Oct 9]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid=electrolytes
    8. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Chloride (CL): Test Overview; [updated 2019 Mar 28; cited 2019 Oct 9]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/chloride/hw6323.html#hw6326
    9. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Electrolyte Panel: Topic Overview; [updated 2019 Mar 28; cited 2019 Oct 9]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/special/electrolyte-panel/tr6146.html
    10. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Sodium (NA): in Blood: Test Overview; [updated 2019 Mar 28; cited 2019 Oct 9]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/sodium/hw203476.html#hw203479

## Related Health Topics

    * Fluid and Electrolyte Balance
    * Minerals
    * Potassium
    * Sodium

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Anion Gap Blood Test
    * Carbon Dioxide (CO2) in Blood
    * Chloride Blood Test
    * Comprehensive Metabolic Panel (CMP)
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Potassium Blood Test
    * Sodium Blood Test

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 19 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

