Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/strep-b-test/    
                                Description: Strep B is a type of bacteria that&#39;s usually harmless in adults but can be deadly in newborns. A group B strep test is most often used to check for the bacteria in pregnant women. Antibiotics can prevent a mother from infecting her unborn baby. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Strep B Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/strep-b-test/

# Strep B Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a group B strep test?

Strep B, also known as group B strep (GBS), is a type of bacteria commonly
found in the digestive tract, urinary tract, and genital area. It rarely
causes symptoms or problems in adults but can be deadly to newborns.

In women, GBS is mostly found in the vagina and rectum. So a pregnant woman
who is infected can pass the bacteria to her baby during labor and delivery.
GBS can cause pneumonia, meningitis, and other serious illnesses in a baby.
GBS infections are the leading cause of death and disability in newborns.

A group B strep test checks for GBS bacteria. If the test shows that a
pregnant woman has GBS, she can take antibiotics during labor to protect her
baby from infection.

Other names: group B streptococcus, group B beta-hemolytic streptococcus,
streptococcus agalactiae, beta-hemolytic strep culture

## What is it used for?

A group B strep test is most often used to look for GBS bacteria in pregnant
women. Most pregnant women are tested as part of routine prenatal screening.
It may also be used to test infants who show signs of infection.

## Why do I need a group B strep test?

You may need a strep B test if you are pregnant. The American College of
Obstetricians and Gynecologists recommends GBS testing for all pregnant women.
Testing is usually done in the 36th or 37th week of pregnancy. If you go into
labor earlier than 36 weeks, you may be tested at that time.

A baby may need a group B strep test if he or she has symptoms of infection.
These include:

    * High fever
    * Trouble with feeding
    * Trouble breathing
    * Lack of energy (hard to wake up)

## What happens during a group B strep test?

If you are pregnant, your health care provider may order a swab test or a
urine test.

**For a swab test** , you will lie on your back on an exam table. Your health
care provider will use a small cotton swab to take a sample of cells and
fluids from your vagina and rectum.

**For a urine test** , you will most likely be told to use the "clean catch
method" to ensure your sample is sterile. It includes the following steps.

    * Wash your hands.
    * Clean your genital area with a cleansing pad given to you by your provider. To clean, open your labia and wipe from front to back.
    * Start to urinate into the toilet.
    * Move the collection container under your urine stream.
    * Collect at least an ounce or two of urine into the container, which should have markings to indicate the amounts.
    * Finish urinating into the toilet.
    * Return the sample container as instructed by your health care provider.

If your baby needs testing, a provider may do a blood test or a spinal tap.

**For a blood test** , a health care professional will use a small needle to
take a blood sample from your baby's heel. After the needle is inserted, a
small amount of blood will be collected into a test tube or vial. Your baby
may feel a little sting when the needle goes in or out.

**A spinal tap** , also known as a lumbar puncture, is a test that collects
and looks at spinal fluid, the clear liquid that surrounds the brain and
spinal cord. During the procedure:

    * A nurse or other health care provider will hold your baby in a curled-up position.
    * A health care provider will clean your baby's back and inject an anesthetic into the skin, so your baby won't feel pain during the procedure. The provider may put a numbing cream on your baby's back before this injection.
    * The provider may also give your baby a sedative and/or pain reliever to help him or her better tolerate the procedure.
    * Once the area on the back is completely numb, your provider will insert a thin, hollow needle between two vertebrae in the lower spine. Vertebrae are the small backbones that make up the spine.
    * The provider will withdraw a small amount of cerebrospinal fluid for testing. This will take about five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't any special preparations for group B strep tests.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is no risk to you from a swab or urine test. Your baby may have slight
pain or bruising after a blood test, but that should go away quickly. Your
baby will likely feel some pain after a spinal tap, but that shouldn't last
too long. There is also a small risk of infection or bleeding after a spinal
tap.

## What do the results mean?

If you are pregnant and results show you have GBS bacteria, you will be given
antibiotics intravenously (by IV) during labor, at least four hours before
delivery. This will prevent you from passing the bacteria to your baby. Taking
antibiotics earlier in your pregnancy is not effective, because the bacteria
can grow back very quickly. It's also more effective to take antibiotics
through your vein, rather than by mouth.

You may not need antibiotics if you are having a planned delivery by Cesarean
section (C-section). During a C-section, a baby is delivered through the
mother's abdomen rather than vaginally. But you still should be tested during
pregnancy because you may go into labor before your scheduled C-section.

If your baby's results show a GBS infection, he or she will be treated with
antibiotics. If your provider suspects a GBS infection, he or she may treat
your baby before test results are available. This is because GBS can cause
serious illness or death.

If you have questions about your results or your baby's results, talk to your
health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a group B strep test?

Strep B is one type of strep bacteria. Other forms of strep cause different
types of infections. These include strep A, which causes strep throat, and
streptococcus pneumoniae, which causes the most common type of pneumonia.
Streptococcus pneumonia bacteria can also cause infections of the ear,
sinuses, and bloodstream.

## References

    1. ACOG: The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists; c2019. Group B Strep and Pregnancy; 2019 Jul [cited 2019 Nov 15]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.acog.org/Patients/FAQs/Group-B-Strep-and-Pregnancy
    2. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Group B Strep (GBS): Prevention; [cited 2019 Nov 15]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/groupbstrep/about/prevention.html
    3. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Group B Strep (GBS): Signs and Symptoms; [cited 2019 Nov 15]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/groupbstrep/about/symptoms.html
    4. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Streptococcus Laboratory: Streptococcus pneumoniae; [cited 2019 Nov 15]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/streplab/pneumococcus/index.html
    5. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Travelers' Health: Pneumococcal Disease; [updated 2014 Aug 5; cited 2019 Nov 15]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/diseases/pneumococcal-disease-streptococcus-pneumoniae
    6. Intermountain Healthcare: Primary Children's Hospital [Internet]. Salt Lake City: Intermountain Healthcare; c2019. Lumbar Puncture in a Newborn; [cited 2019 Nov 15]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://intermountainhealthcare.org/ext/Dcmnt?ncid=520190573
    7. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Blood Culture; [updated 2019 Sep 23; cited 2019 Nov 15]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/blood-culture
    8. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Prenatal Group B Strep (GBS) Screening; [updated 2019 May 6; cited 2019 Nov 15]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/prenatal-group-b-strep-gbs-screening
    9. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Urine Culture; [updated 2019 Sep 18; cited 2019 Nov 15]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/urine-culture
    10. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Group B Streptococcus Infection in Babies; [cited 2019 Nov 15]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=90&contentid=P02363
    11. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Pneumonia; [cited 2019 Nov 15]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=85&contentid=P01321
    12. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Group B Streptococcal Infections in Newborns: Topic Overview; [updated 2018 Dec 12; cited 2019 Nov 15]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/special/group-b-streptococcal-infections-in-newborns/zp3014spec.html
    13. WHO Guidelines on Drawing Blood: Best Practices in Phlebotomy [Internet]. Geneva (SUI): World Health Organization; c2010. 6. Paediatric and neonatal blood sampling; [cited 2019 Nov 15]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK138647

## Related Health Topics

    * Antibiotics
    * Bacterial Infections
    * Infections and Pregnancy
    * Prenatal Testing
    * Streptococcal Infections

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Bacteria Culture Test
    * Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) Analysis
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Strep A Test

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 20 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

