Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000030.htm    
                                Description: People who have dementia may have trouble with:     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dementia - daily care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000030.htm

# Dementia - daily care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

People who have dementia may have trouble with:

    * Language and communication
    * Eating
    * Handling their own personal care

## Help With Memory Loss

People who have early memory loss can give themselves reminders to help them
function each day. Some of these include:

    * Asking the person you are talking with to repeat what they said.
    * Repeating what someone said to you 1 or 2 times. This will help you remember it better.
    * Writing down your appointments and other activities in a planner or on a calendar. Keep your planner or calendar in an obvious place, like beside your bed.
    * Posting messages around your home where you will see them, such as the bathroom mirror, next to the coffee pot, or on the phone.
    * Keeping a list of important phone numbers next to every phone.
    * Having clocks and calendars around the house so you stay aware of the date and what time it is.
    * Labeling important items.
    * Developing habits and routines that are easy to follow.
    * Planning activities that improve your thinking, such as puzzles, games, baking, or indoor gardening. Have someone nearby for any tasks that may have a risk of injury. 

## Eating and Nutrition

Some people who have dementia may refuse food or not eat enough to stay
healthy on their own.

    * Help the person get enough exercise. Ask them to go outside with you for a walk.
    * Have someone the person likes, such as a friend or relative, prepare and serve them food.
    * Reduce distractions around the eating area, such as the radio or TV.
    * Do not give them foods that are too hot or too cold.
    * Give the person finger foods if they have problems using utensils.
    * Try different foods. It is common for people who have dementia to have decreased smell and taste. This will affect their enjoyment of food. 

In later stages of dementia, the person may have trouble chewing or
swallowing. Talk with the person's health care provider about a proper diet.
At some point, the person may need a diet of only liquid or soft foods, to
prevent choking.

## Tips for Talking With Someone With Dementia

Keep distractions and noise down:

    * Turn off the radio or TV
    * Close the curtains
    * Move to a quieter room

To avoid surprising the person, try to make eye contact before touching or
speaking to them.

Use simple words and sentences, and speak slowly. Speak in a quiet voice.
Talking loudly, as if the person is hard of hearing, will not help. Repeat
your words, if needed. Use names and places the person knows. Try not to use
pronouns, such as "he," "she," and "them." This can confuse someone with
dementia. Tell them when you are going to change the subject.

Talk to people who have dementia as adults. Don't make them feel as if they
are children. And don't pretend to understand them if you do not.

Ask questions so they can answer with "yes" or "no." Give the person clear
choices, and a visual cue, such as pointing to something, if possible. Don't
give them too many options.

When giving instructions:

    * Break directions down into small and simple steps.
    * Allow time for the person to understand.
    * If they get frustrated, consider switching to another activity.

Try to get them talking about something they enjoy. Many people with dementia
like to talk about the past, and many can remember the distant past better
than recent events. Even if they remember something wrong, do not insist on
correcting them.

## Personal Grooming

People with dementia may need help with personal care and grooming.

Their bathroom should be nearby and easy to find. Consider leaving the
bathroom door open, so they can see it. Suggest that they visit the bathroom
several times a day.

Make sure their bathroom is warm. Get them undergarments made for urine or
stool leakage. Make sure they are cleaned well after going to the bathroom. Be
gentle when helping. Try to respect their dignity.

Make sure the bathroom is safe. Common safety devices are:

    * A tub or shower seat
    * Handrails
    * Anti-skid mats

Do not let them use razors with blades. Electric razors are best for shaving.
Remind the person to brush their teeth at least 2 times a day.

A person with dementia should have clothing that is easy to put on and take
off.

    * Do not give them too many choices about what to wear.
    * Velcro is much easier than buttons and zippers to use. If they still wear clothes with buttons and zippers, they should be in the front.
    * Get them pullover clothes and slip on shoes, as their dementia gets worse.

## Images

    * ![Alzheimer disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23214t.jpg)Alzheimer disease

## References

Alzheimer's Association website. Dementia care practice recommendations for
professionals working in a home setting.
www.alz.org/national/documents/phase_4_home_care_recs.pdf. Accessed on May 10,
2018.

Budson AE, Solomon PR. Life adjustments for memory loss, Alzheimer's disease,
and dementia. In: Budson AE, Solomon PR, eds. _Memory Loss, Alzheimer's
Disease, and Dementia: A Practical Guide for Clinicians_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 25.

## Read More

    * Alzheimer disease
    * Brain aneurysm repair
    * Dementia
    * Stroke

## Patient Instructions

    * Communicating with someone with aphasia
    * Communicating with someone with dysarthria
    * Dementia and driving
    * Dementia - behavior and sleep problems
    * Dementia - keeping safe in the home
    * Dementia - what to ask your doctor 
    * Dry mouth during cancer treatment
    * Preventing falls
    * Stroke - discharge 
    * Swallowing problems 

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Dementia

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

