Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000216.htm    
                                Description: You are caring for someone who has dementia. Below are questions you may want to ask the health care provider to help you take care of that person.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dementia - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000216.htm

# Dementia - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You are caring for someone who has dementia. Below are questions you may want
to ask the health care provider to help you take care of that person.

## Questions

Are there ways that I can help someone remember things around the home?

How should I talk with someone who is losing or has lost their memory?

    * What type of words should I use?
    * What is the best way to ask them questions?
    * What is the best way to give instructions to someone with memory loss?

How can I help someone with dressing? Are some clothes or shoes easier? Will
an occupational therapist be able to teach us skills?

What is the best way to react when the person I am caring for becomes
confused, hard to manage, or does not sleep well?

    * What can I do to help the person calm down?
    * Are there activities that are more likely to agitate them?
    * Can I make changes around the home that will help keep the person calmer?

What should I do if the person I am caring for wanders around?

    * How can I keep them safe when they do wander?
    * Are there ways to keep them from leaving the home?

How can I keep the person I am caring for from hurting themselves around the
house?

    * What should I hide?
    * Are there changes in the bathroom or kitchen I should make?
    * Are they able to take their own medicines?

What are the signs that driving is becoming unsafe?

    * How often should this person have a driving evaluation?
    * What are the ways I can lessen the need for driving?
    * What are the steps to take if the person I am caring for refuses to stop driving?

What diet should I give this person?

    * Are there hazards I should watch for while this person is eating?
    * What should I do if this person starts to choke?

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor about dementia; Alzheimer disease - what to ask your
doctor; Cognitive impairment - what to ask your doctor

## Images

    * ![Alzheimer disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23214t.jpg)Alzheimer disease

## References

Budson AE, Solomon PR. Life adjustments for memory loss, Alzheimer's disease,
and dementia. In: Budson AE, Solomon PR, eds. _Memory Loss, Alzheimer's
Disease, and Dementia: A Practical Guide for Clinicians_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 25.

Fazio S, Pace D, Maslow K, Zimmerman S, Kallmyer B. Alzheimer's Association
dementia care practice recommendations. _Gerontologist_.
2018;58(Suppl_1):S1-S9. PMID: 29361074 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29361074.

## Read More

    * Alzheimer disease
    * Confusion
    * Dementia
    * Stroke
    * Vascular dementia

## Patient Instructions

    * Communicating with someone with aphasia
    * Communicating with someone with dysarthria
    * Dementia and driving
    * Dementia - behavior and sleep problems
    * Dementia - daily care
    * Dementia - keeping safe in the home
    * Preventing falls
    * Stroke - discharge 

## Review Date 10/13/2018

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Dementia

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

