Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000746.htm    
                                Description:  &#10; Dementia is a gradual and permanent loss of brain function. This occurs with certain diseases. It affects memory, thinking, language, judgment, and behavior.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vascular dementia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000746.htm

# Vascular dementia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Dementia is a gradual and permanent loss of brain function. This occurs with
certain diseases. It affects memory, thinking, language, judgment, and
behavior.

Vascular dementia (VaD) is caused by a series of small strokes over a long
period.

## Causes

VaD dementia is the second most common cause of dementia after Alzheimer
disease in people over age 65.

Vascular dementia is caused by a series of small strokes.

    * A stroke is a disturbance in or blockage of the blood supply to any part of the brain. A stroke is also called an infarct. Multi-infarct means that more than one area in the brain has been injured due to a lack of blood.
    * If blood flow is stopped for longer than a few seconds, the brain cannot get oxygen. Brain cells can die, causing permanent damage.
    * When strokes affect a small area, there may be no symptoms. These are called silent strokes. Over time, as more areas of the brain are damaged, the symptoms of dementia appear.
    * Not all strokes are silent. Larger strokes that affect strength, sensation, or other brain and nervous system (neurologic) function can also lead to dementia. 

Risk factors for VaD include:

    * Diabetes
    * Hardening of the arteries (atherosclerosis), heart disease
    * High blood pressure (hypertension)
    * Smoking
    * Stroke 

Symptoms of dementia may also be caused by other types of disorders of the
brain. One such disorder is Alzheimer disease. Symptoms of Alzheimer disease
can be similar to those of VaD. VaD and Alzheimer disease are the most common
causes of dementia, and may occur together.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of VaD may develop gradually or may progress after each small stroke.

Symptoms may begin suddenly after each stroke. Some people with VaD may
improve for short periods, but decline after having more silent strokes.

Early symptoms of dementia can include:

    * Difficulty performing tasks that used to come easily, such as balancing a checkbook, playing games (such as bridge), and learning new information or routines
    * Getting lost on familiar routes
    * Language problems, such as trouble finding the name of familiar objects
    * Losing interest in things you previously enjoyed, flat mood
    * Misplacing items
    * Personality changes and loss of social skills 

As dementia worsens, symptoms are more obvious and the ability to take care of
oneself declines. Symptoms may include:

    * Change in sleep patterns, often waking up at night
    * Difficulty doing basic tasks, such as preparing meals, choosing proper clothing, or driving
    * Forgetting details about current events
    * Forgetting events in your own life history, losing awareness of who you are
    * Having delusions, depression, or agitation
    * Having hallucinations, arguments, striking out, or violent behavior
    * Having more difficulty reading or writing
    * Having poor judgment and loss of ability to recognize danger
    * Using the wrong word, not pronouncing words correctly, or speaking in confusing sentences
    * Withdrawing from social contact 

Nervous system (neurologic) problems that occur with a stroke may also be
present.

## Exams and Tests

Tests may be ordered to help determine whether other medical problems could be
causing dementia or making it worse, such as:

    * Anemia
    * Brain tumor
    * Chronic infection
    * Drug and medicine intoxication (overdose)
    * Severe depression
    * Thyroid disease
    * Vitamin deficiency 

Other tests may be done to find out what parts of thinking have been affected
and to guide other tests.

Tests that can show evidence of previous strokes in the brain may include:

    * Head CT scan
    * MRI of the brain

## Treatment

There is no treatment to turn back damage to the brain caused by small
strokes.

An important goal is to control symptoms and correct the risk factors. To
prevent future strokes:

    * Avoid fatty foods. Follow a healthy, low-fat diet.
    * DO NOT drink more than 1 to 2 alcoholic drinks a day.
    * Keep blood pressure lower than 130/80 mm/Hg. Ask your doctor what your blood pressure should be.
    * Keep LDL "bad" cholesterol lower than 70 mg/dL.
    * DO NOT smoke.
    * The doctorÂ may suggest blood thinners, such as aspirin, to help prevent blood clots from forming in the arteries. DO NOT start taking aspirin or stop takingÂ itÂ without talking toÂ yourÂ doctor first. 

The goals of helping someone with dementia in the home are to:

    * Manage behavior problems, confusion, sleep problems, and agitation
    * Remove safety hazards in the home
    * Support family members and other caregivers 

Medicines may be needed to control aggressive, agitated, or dangerous
behaviors.

Medicines used to treat Alzheimer disease have not been shown to work for VaD.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Some improvement may occur for short periods, but the disorder will generally
get worse over time.

## Possible Complications

Complications include the following:

    * Future strokes
    * Heart disease
    * Loss of ability to function or care for self
    * Loss of ability to interact
    * Pneumonia, urinary tract infections, skin infections
    * Pressure sores

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your doctor if symptoms of VaD occur. Go to the emergency room or call
the local emergency number (such as 911) if there is a sudden change in mental
status, sensation, or movement. These are emergency symptoms of stroke.

## Prevention

Control conditions that increase the risk of hardening of the arteries
(atherosclerosis) by:

    * Controlling high blood pressure
    * Controlling weight
    * Stopping the use of tobacco products
    * Reducing saturated fats and salt in the diet
    * Treating related disorders 

## Alternative Names

MID; Dementia - multi-infarct; Dementia - post-stroke; Multi-infarct dementia;
Cortical vascular dementia; VaD; Chronic brain syndrome - vascular; Mild
cognitive impairment - vascular; MCI - vascular; Binswanger disease

## Patient Instructions

    * Dementia - what to ask your doctor 

## Images

    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system
    * ![Brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1074t.jpg)Brain
    * ![Brain and nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8680t.jpg)Brain and nervous system
    * ![Brain structures](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19236t.jpg)Brain structures

## References

Budson AE, Solomon PR. Vascular dementia and vascular cognitive impairment.
In: Budson AE, Solomon PR, eds. _Memory Loss, Alzheimer's Disease, and
Dementia_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 6.

Knopman DS. Alzheimer disease and other dementias. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 402.

Peterson R, Graff-Radford J. Alzheimer disease and other dementias. In: Daroff
RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 95.

Seshadri S, Economos A, Wright C. Vascular dementia and cognitive impairment.
In: Grotta JC, Albers GW, Broderick JP et al, eds. _Stroke: Pathophysiology,
Diagnosis, and Management_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 17.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Joseph V. Campellone, MD, Department of Neurology, Cooper Medical
School at Rowan University, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Internal review and update on 04/15/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Dementia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dementia_thumb.jpg)Dementia _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

