Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003326.htm    
                                Description: Mental status testing is done to check a person    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mental status testing

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003326.htm

# Mental status testing

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Mental status testing is done to check a person's thinking ability, and to
determine if any problems are getting better or worse. It is also called
neurocognitive testing.

## How the Test is Performed

A health care provider will ask a number of questions. The test can be done in
the home, in an office, nursing home, or hospital. Sometimes, a psychologist
with special training will do more detailed tests.

Common tests used are the mini-mental state examination (MMSE), or Folstein
test, and the MontrÃ©al cognitive assessment (MoCA).

The following may be tested:

APPEARANCE

The provider will check your physical appearance, including:

    * Age
    * Clothing
    * General level of comfort
    * Gender
    * Grooming
    * Height/weight
    * Expression
    * Posture
    * Eye contact 

ATTITUDE

    * Friendly or hostile
    * Cooperative or ambivalent (uncertain) 

ORIENTATION

The provider will ask questions such as:

    * What is your name?
    * How old are you?
    * Where do you work?
    * Where do you live?
    * What day and time is it?
    * What season is it? 

PSYCHOMOTOR ACTIVITY

    * Are you calm or irritable and anxious
    * Do you have a normal expression and body movement (affect) or display a flat and depressed affect 

ATTENTION SPAN

Attention span may be tested earlier, because this basic skill can influence
the rest of the tests.

The provider will check:

    * Your ability to complete a thought
    * Your ability to think and problem solve
    * Whether you are easily distracted 

You may be asked to do the following:

    * Start at a certain number, and then begin to subtract backwards by 7s.
    * Spell a word forward and then backward.
    * Repeat up to 7 numbers forward, and up to 5 numbers in reverse order. 

RECENT AND PAST MEMORY

The provider will ask questions related to recent people, places, and events
in your life or in the world.

You may be shown three items and asked to say what they are, and then recall
them after 5 minutes.

The provider will ask about your childhood, school, or events that occurred
earlier in life.

LANGUAGE FUNCTION

The provider will determine if you can formulate your ideas clearly. You'll be
observed for if you repeat yourself or repeat what the provider says. The
provider will also determine if you have trouble expressing or understanding
(aphasia).

The provider will point to everyday items in the room and ask you to name
them, and possibly to name less common items.

You may be asked to say as many words as possible that start with a certain
letter, or that are in a certain category, in 1 minute.

You may be asked to read or write a sentence.

JUDGMENT AND INTELLIGENCE

This part of the test looks at your ability to solve a problem or situation.
You may be asked questions such as:

    * "If you found a driver's license on the ground, what would you do?"
    * "If a police car with lights flashing came up behind your car, what would you do?" 

Some tests that screen for language problems using reading or writing do not
account for people who do not read or write. If you know that the person being
tested cannot read or write, tell the provider before the test.

If your child is having the test, it is important to helpÂ them understand the
reason for the test.

## Normal Results

Most tests are divided into sections, each with its own score. The results
help show which part of someone's thinking and memory may be affected.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A number of health conditions can affect mental status. The provider will
discuss these with you. An abnormal mental status test alone does not diagnose
the cause. However, poor performance on such tests can be due to medical
illness, brain disease such as dementia, Parkinson disease, or to mental
illness.

## Alternative Names

Mental status exam; Neurocognitive testing; Dementia-mental status testing

## References

Beresin EV, Gordon C. The psychiatric interview. In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens
TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical
Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 2.

Gierus J, Mosiolek A, Koweszko T, Wnukiewicz P, Kozyra O, Szulc A. The
Montreal Cognitive Assessment as a preliminary assessment tool in general
psychiatry: validity of MoCA in psychiatric patients. _Gen Hosp Psychiatry_.
2015;37(5):476-480. PMID: 26054843 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26054843.

## Review Date 11/22/2017

Updated by: Luc Jasmin, MD, PhD, FRCS (C), FACS, Department of Surgery at
Providence Medical Center, Medford OR; Department of Surgery at Ashland
Community Hospital, Ashland OR; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery at UCSF,
San Francisco, CA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Alzheimer's
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Alzheimers_thumb.jpg)Alzheimer's
Disease _Read more_

![Dementia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dementia_thumb.jpg)Dementia _Read
more_

![Memory](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Memory2_thumb.jpg)Memory _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

