Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000683.htm    
                                Description: Dementia is loss of brain function that occurs with certain diseases.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dementia due to metabolic causes

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000683.htm

# Dementia due to metabolic causes

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Dementia is loss of brain function that occurs with certain diseases.

Dementia due to metabolic causes is a loss of brain function that can occur
with abnormal chemical processes in the body. With some of these disorders, if
treated early, brain dysfunction can be reversible. Left untreated, permanent
brain damage, such as dementia, can occur.

## Causes

Possible metabolic causes of dementia include:

    * Hormonal disorders, such as Addison disease, Cushing disease
    * Heavy metal exposure, such as to lead, arsenic, mercury, or manganese
    * Repeat episodes of low blood sugar (hypoglycemia), most often seen in people with diabetes who use insulin
    * High level of calcium in the blood, such as due to hyperparathyroidism
    * Low level of thyroid hormone (hypothyroidism) orÂ high level of thyroid hormone (thyrotoxicosis) in the body
    * Liver cirrhosis
    * Kidney failure
    * Nutritional disorders, such as vitamin B1 deficiency, vitamin B12 deficiency, pellagra, or protein-calorie malnutrition
    * Porphyria
    * Poisons, such as methanol
    * Severe alcohol use
    * Wilson disease
    * Disorders of the mitochondria (energy-producing parts of cells)
    * Rapid changes in sodium level 

## Symptoms

Metabolic disorders may cause confusion and changes in thinking or reasoning.
These changes may be short-term or lasting. Dementia occurs when the symptoms
are not reversible. Symptoms can be different for everyone. They depend on the
health condition causing the dementia.

The early symptoms of dementia can include:

    * Difficulty with tasks that take some thought but used to come easily, such as balancing a checkbook, playing games (such as bridge), and learning new information or routines
    * Getting lost on familiar routes
    * Language problems, such as trouble with names of familiar objects
    * Losing interest in things previously enjoyed, flat mood
    * Misplacing items
    * Personality changes and loss of social skills, which can lead to inappropriate behaviors

As the dementia gets worse, symptoms are more obvious and interfere with the
ability to take care of yourself:

    * Changing sleep patterns, often waking up at night
    * Forgetting details about current events, forgetting events in one's life history
    * Having difficulty doing basic tasks, such as preparing meals, choosing proper clothing, or driving
    * Having hallucinations, arguments, striking out, and behaving violently
    * More difficulty reading or writing
    * Poor judgment and losing the ability to recognize danger
    * Using the wrong word, not pronouncing words correctly, speaking in confusing sentences
    * Withdrawing from social contact

The person may also have symptoms from the disorder that caused dementia.

## Exams and Tests

Depending on the cause, a nervous system (neurologic examination) is done to
identify the problems.

Tests to diagnose a medical condition causing the dementia may include:

    * Ammonia level in the blood
    * Blood chemistry, electrolytes
    * Blood glucose level
    * BUN, creatinine to check kidney function
    * Liver function tests
    * Lumbar puncture (spinal tap)
    * Nutritional assessment
    * Thyroid function tests
    * Urinalysis
    * Vitamin B12 level

To rule out certain brain disorders, an EEGÂ (electroencephalogram), head CT
scan, or head MRI scan is usually done.

## Treatment

The aim of treatment is to manage the disorder and control symptoms. With some
metabolic disorders, treatment may stop or even reverse the dementia symptoms.

Medicines used to treat Alzheimer disease have not been shown to work for
these types of disorders. Sometimes, these drugs are used anyway, when other
treatments fail to control the underlying problems.

Plans should also be made for home care for people with dementia.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outcome varies, depending on the cause of the dementia and the amount of
damage to the brain.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include the following:

    * Loss of ability to function or care for self
    * Loss of ability to interact
    * Pneumonia, urinary tract infections, and skin infections
    * Pressure sores
    * Symptoms of the underlying problem (such as loss of sensation due to a nerve injuryÂ from vitamin B12 deficiency) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your health care provider if symptoms get worse
or continue. Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such
as 911) if there is a sudden change in mental status or a life-threatening
emergency.

## Prevention

Treating the underlying cause may reduce the risk for metabolic dementia.

## Alternative Names

Chronic brain - metabolic; Mild cognitive - metabolic; MCI - metabolic

## Images

    * ![Brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1074t.jpg)Brain
    * ![Brain and nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8680t.jpg)Brain and nervous system

## References

Budson AE, Solomon PR. Other disorders that cause memory loss or dementia. In:
Budson AE, Solomon PR, eds. _Memory Loss, Alzheimer's Disease, and Dementia_.
2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 14.

Douglas VC, Josephson SA. Dementia and systemic disease. In: Aminoff MJ,
Josephson SA, eds. _Aminoff's Neurology and General Medicine_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2014:chap 61.

Knopman DS. Alzheimer disease and other dementias. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 402.

Peterson R, Graff-Radford J. Alzheimer disease and other dementias. In:
Daradoff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology
in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 95.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Joseph V. Campellone, MD, Department of Neurology, Cooper Medical
School at Rowan University, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Dementia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dementia_thumb.jpg)Dementia _Read
more_

![Metabolic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MetabolicDisorders_thumb.jpg)Metabolic
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

