

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate

# Goal 2: Decrease morbidity and mortality from HIV, viral hepatitis, STDs,
and TB

Minus

Related Pages

![movement toward 2020 target](/nchhstp/strategicpriorities/images/yes-
checkmark.png)

Movement toward 2020 target

![no change toward 2020 target](/nchhstp/strategicpriorities/images/no-change-
arrow.png)

No change

![movement away from 2020
target](/nchhstp/strategicpriorities/images/red-x.png)

Movement away from 2020 target

Goal 1 Goal 2 Goal 3

Indicators towards Goal 2 progress from 2010 to current including trend line

**Indicator**

|

**Progress**

|

**2010**

|

**2011**

|

**2012**

|

**2013**

|

**2014**

|

**2015**

|

**2016**

|

**2017**

|

**Trend**

|

**2020 Goal**  
  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
**Reduce deaths per 100,000 for people diagnosed with …**  
  
HIV

|

![movement toward 2020 target](/nchhstp/strategicpriorities/images/yes-
checkmark.png)

|

19.4

|

18.0

|

16.7

|

15.7

|

15.3

|

14.3

|

--

|

--

|

![line graph showing positive movement towards 2020 target of reducing deaths
for people diagnosed with HIV](/nchhstp/strategicpriorities/images/goal2-hiv-
trend-1.png)

|

15.5  
  
Hepatitis B

|

![movement toward 2020 target](/nchhstp/strategicpriorities/images/yes-
checkmark.png)

|

0.52

|

0.52

|

0.50

|

0.52

|

0.50

|

0.45

|

0.45

|

--

|

![line graph showing positive movement towards 2020 target of reducing deaths
for people diagnosed with Hepatitis
B](/nchhstp/strategicpriorities/images/goal2-hepatitis-b-trend-1.png)

|

0.48  
  
Hepatitis C

|

![movement toward 2020 target](/nchhstp/strategicpriorities/images/yes-
checkmark.png)

|

4.65

|

4.82

|

4.96

|

5.03

|

5.01

|

4.91

|

4.45

|

--

|

![line graph showing negative movement towards 2020 target of reducing deaths
for people diagnosed with Hepatitis
C](/nchhstp/strategicpriorities/images/goal2-hepatitis-c-trend-1.png)

|

4.17  
  
Increase the percentage of persons with HIV who achieve viral suppression |

![movement toward 2020 target](/nchhstp/strategicpriorities/images/yes-
checkmark.png)

|

46.0%

|

48.5%

|

51.6%

|

54.7%

|

57.9%

|

59.8%

|

--

|

--

|

![line graph showing positive movement towards 2020 target of increasing
percentage of persons with HIV who achieve viral
suppression](/nchhstp/strategicpriorities/images/goal2-viral-suppression-
trend.png)

|

80%  
  
Increase the proportion of persons with gonorrhea who are treated with an
effective antibiotic regimen |

![movement toward 2020 target](/nchhstp/strategicpriorities/images/yes-
checkmark.png)

|

84.6%

|

71.4%

|

80.8%

|

80.1%

|

83.0%

|

87.9%

|

86.4%

|

--

|

![line graph showing negative movement towards 2020 target of increasing
proportion of persons with gonorrhea who are treated with effective antibiotic
regimen](/nchhstp/strategicpriorities/images/goal2-gonorrhea-trend.png)

|

90%  
  
Increase the percentage of people who are aware of their infection for people
diagnosed with HIV |

![movement toward 2020 target](/nchhstp/strategicpriorities/images/yes-
checkmark.png)

|

83.1%

|

83.6%

|

84.1%

|

84.6%

|

85.0%

|

85.5%

|

--

|

--

|

![line graph showing negative movement towards 2020 target of increasing
proportion of persons with gonorrhea who are treated with effective antibiotic
regimen](/nchhstp/strategicpriorities/images/goal2-hiv-trend-2.png)

|

90%  
  
Increase the percentage of sexually experienced high school students who have
been tested for HIV |

![movement away from 2020
target](/nchhstp/strategicpriorities/images/red-x.png)

|

--

|

22.2%

|

--

|

22.4%

|

--

|

17.2%

|

--

|

17.2%

|

![line graph showing negative movement towards 2020 target of increasing
percentage of sexually experienced high school students tested for
HIV](/nchhstp/strategicpriorities/images/goal2-highschool-trend.png)

|

24.6%  
  
Increase the percentage of STD clinic visits in which patients who are
diagnosed with an acute STD and are not known to be HIV infected are tested
for HIV |

![movement toward 2020 target](/nchhstp/strategicpriorities/images/yes-
checkmark.png)

|

--

|

--

|

--

|

72.0%

|

70.7%

|

72.3%

|

73.5%

|

--

|

![line graph showing negative movement towards 2020 target of increasing
percentage STD clinic visits with an acute
STD](/nchhstp/strategicpriorities/images/goal2-acute-std-trend.png)

|

79%  
  
Increase the percentage of young sexually active females aged 16-20 who are
screened for chlamydia |

![movement toward 2020 target](/nchhstp/strategicpriorities/images/yes-
checkmark.png)

|

--

|

--

|

--

|

45.1%

|

45.6%

|

45.2%

|

48.6%

|

--

|

![line graph showing no change in movement towards 2020 target of increasing
percentage of young sexually active females aged 16 to 20 who are screened for
chlamydia](/nchhstp/strategicpriorities/images/goal2-chlamydia-trend-1.png)

|

49.6%  
  
Increase the percentage of young sexually active females aged 21-24 who are
screened for chlamydia |

![movement toward 2020 target](/nchhstp/strategicpriorities/images/yes-
checkmark.png)

|

--

|

--

|

--

|

53.2%

|

54.0%

|

54.0%

|

57.3%

|

--

|

![line graph showing no change in movement towards 2020 target of increasing
percentage of young sexually active females aged 21 to 24 who are screened for
chlamydia](/nchhstp/strategicpriorities/images/goal2-chlamydia-trend-2.png)

|

58.5%  
  
![movement toward 2020 target](/nchhstp/strategicpriorities/images/yes-
checkmark.png)

Movement toward 2020 target

![no change toward 2020 target](/nchhstp/strategicpriorities/images/no-change-
arrow.png)

No change

![movement away from 2020
target](/nchhstp/strategicpriorities/images/red-x.png)

Movement away from 2020 target

Goal 1 Goal 2 Goal 3

Data Sources for Goal 2 Indicators

NCHHSTP strategic plan goal 2 indicators with data sources Indicator | Data
Source  
---|---  
Reduce deaths for people diagnosed with HIV | Table 10, HIV Monitoring Report
Cdc-pdf[PDF - 2.12 MB]  
Reduce deaths for people diagnosed with hepatitis B |  Progress Toward Viral
Hepatitis Elimination in the United States, 2017 Cdc-pdf[PDF - 5.42 MB], page
24, for years 2010-2015



2016 data provided from Table 3.5, Surveillance for Viral Hepatitis, United
States, 2016  
  
Reduce deaths for people diagnosed with hepatitis C |  Progress Toward Viral
Hepatitis Elimination in the United States, 2017 Cdc-pdf[PDF - 5.42 MB], page
30, for years 2010-2015



2016 data provided from Table 4.5, Surveillance for Viral Hepatitis, United
States, 2016  
  
Increase the percentage of persons with HIV who achieve viral suppression |
Table 10, HIV Monitoring Report Cdc-pdf[PDF - 2.12 MB]  
Increase the proportion of persons with gonorrhea who are treated with an
effective antibiotic regimen | STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)  
Increase the percentage of people who are aware of their infection for people
diagnosed with HIV | Table 10, HIV Monitoring Report Cdc-pdf[PDF - 2.12 MB]  
Increase the percentage of sexually experienced high school students who have
been tested for HIV | Based on data from the Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance
System (YRBS)  
Increase the percentage of STD clinic visits in which patients who are
diagnosed with an acute STD and are not known to be HIV infected are tested
for HIV | STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)  
Increase the percentage of young sexually active females aged 16-20 who are
screened for chlamydia | National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA)'s
Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set (HEDIS)  
Increase the percentage of young sexually active females aged 21-24 who are
screened for chlamydia | National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA)'s
Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set (HEDIS)  
  
![Get Tested, Find an HIV testing site near
you](/lgbthealth/images/gettested.jpg)

Get Tested  
Find an HIV testing site near you

![The NCHHSTP AtlasPlus is an interactive tool that provides CDC an effective
way to disseminate HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD,  TB data and Social Determinants
of Health Data, while allowing users to observe trends and patterns by
creating detailed reports, maps, and other graphics. Find out
more!](/nchhstp/atlas/images/buttons/AtlasPlus-180x150.jpg)

CDC's HIV, hepatitis, STD, &  
TB data made interactive

![CDC 24-7, Protecting America's Safety, Health, and
Security](/nchhstp/images/cdc-24-7-logo-small-small.jpg)

Page last reviewed: August 23, 2018

Content source: National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB
Prevention

home NCHHSTP

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Sexual Health & Disease Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Condom Effectiveness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Get Tested Locator
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Sexual Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Sexual Orientation & Gender Identityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LGBT Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gay & Bisexual Menâs Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Transgender Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Disparities & Populations at Riskplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Social Determinants of Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Health Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Correctional Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Persons Who Use Drugs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tuskegee Syphilis Study
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Data, Tools & Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Partners & Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * High-Impact Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Economic Modeling
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Partnerships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Prevention Through Health Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Program Collaboration (PCSI)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Legal Tools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * National Prevention Information Network (NPIN)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Newsroom
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Communication Centerplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Connections Newsletter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Dear Colleague Lettersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2014
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Feature Archiveplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2014
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Medscape Commentaries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Social Mediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Social Media Policy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About NCHHSTPplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About the Director
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Budget
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Strategic Plan Through 2020plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Strategic Plan Indicator Dashboardplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Goal 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Goal 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Goal 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Divisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Epidemic Intelligence Serviceplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Division for Adolescent and School Health (DASH)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention (DHAP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Division of Viral Hepatitis (DVH)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Division of Sexually Transmitted Disease Prevention (DSTDP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Division of Tuberculosis Elimination (DTBE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Web Metrics Dashboard

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health

