Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000031.htm    
                                Description: It is important to make sure the homes of people who have dementia are safe for them.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dementia - keeping safe in the home

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000031.htm

# Dementia - keeping safe in the home

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

It is important to make sure the homes of people who have dementia are safe
for them.

## Safety Tips for the Home

Wandering can be a serious problem for people who have more advanced dementia.
These tips may help prevent wandering:

    * Place alarms on all doors and windows that will sound if the doors are opened.
    * Place a "Stop" sign on doors to the outside.
    * Keep car keys out of sight. 

To prevent harm when someone with dementia does wander:

    * Have the person wear an ID bracelet or necklace with their name, address, and phone number on it.
    * Tell neighbors and others in the area that the person who has dementia may wander. Ask them to call you or to help them get home if this happens.
    * Fence and close off any areas that may be dangerous, such as a stairwell, deck, a hot tub, or a swimming pool.
    * Consider giving the person a GPS device or a cell phone with a GPS locator embedded in it. 

Inspect the person's house and remove or reduce hazards for tripping and
falling.

DO NOT leave a person who has advanced dementia alone at home.

Lower the temperature of the hot water tank. Remove or lock up cleaning
products and other items that may be poisonous.

Make sure the kitchen is safe.

    * Remove knobs on the stove when it is not in use.
    * Lock up sharp objects. 

Remove, or store the following in locked areas:

    * All medicines, including the person's medicines and any over-the-counter drugs and supplements.
    * All alcohol.
    * All guns. Separate ammunition from the weapons. 

## Images

    * ![Aged nervous tissue](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8681t.jpg)Alzheimer disease
    * ![Preventing falls](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22912t.jpg)Preventing falls

## References

Alzheimer's Association website. Dementia care practice recommendations for
professionals working in a home setting.
www.alz.org/national/documents/phase_4_home_care_recs.pdf. Accessed May 10,
2018.

Budson AE, Solomon PR. Life adjustments for memory loss, Alzheimer's disease,
and dementia. In: Budson AE, Solomon PR, eds. _Memory Loss, Alzheimer's
Disease, and Dementia: A Practical Guide for Clinicians_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 25.

Cipriani G, Lucetti C, Nuti A, Danti S. Wandering and dementia.
_Psychogeriatrics_. 2014;14(2):135-142. PMID: 24661471
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24661471.

## Read More

    * Alzheimer disease
    * Brain aneurysm repair
    * Dementia
    * Stroke

## Patient Instructions

    * Communicating with someone with aphasia
    * Communicating with someone with dysarthria
    * Dementia and driving
    * Dementia - behavior and sleep problems
    * Dementia - daily care
    * Dementia - what to ask your doctor 
    * Dry mouth during cancer treatment
    * Preventing falls
    * Stroke - discharge 
    * Swallowing problems 

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Dementia

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

