Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001401.htm    
                                Description: Neurocognitive disorderÂ is a general term that describes decreased mental function due to a medical disease other than a psychiatric illness. It is often used synonymously (but incorrectly) with dementia.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Neurocognitive disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001401.htm

# Neurocognitive disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Neurocognitive disorderÂ is a general term that describes decreased mental
function due to a medical disease other than a psychiatric illness. It is
often used synonymously (but incorrectly) with dementia.

## Causes

Listed below are conditions associated with neurocognitive disorder.

BRAIN INJURY CAUSED BY TRAUMA

    * Bleeding into the brain (intracerebral hemorrhage)
    * Bleeding into the space around the brain (subarachnoid hemorrhage)
    * Blood clot inside the skull causing pressure on brain (subdural or epidural hematoma)
    * Concussion

BREATHING CONDITIONS

    * Low oxygen in the body (hypoxia)
    * High carbon dioxide level in the body (hypercapnia) 

CARDIOVASCULAR DISORDERS

    * Dementia due to many strokes (multi-infarct dementia)
    * Heart infections (endocarditis, myocarditis)
    * Stroke
    * Transient ischemic attack (TIA) 

DEGENERATIVE DISORDERS

    * Alzheimer disease (also called senile dementia, Alzheimer type)
    * Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease
    * Diffuse Lewy body disease
    * Huntington disease
    * Multiple sclerosis
    * Normal pressure hydrocephalus
    * Parkinson disease
    * Pick disease

DEMENTIA DUE TO METABOLIC CAUSES

    * Kidney disease
    * Liver disease
    * Thyroid disease (hyperthyroidism or hypothyroidism)
    * Vitamin deficiency (B1, B12, or folate) 

DRUG AND ALCOHOL-RELATED CONDITIONS

    * Alcohol withdrawal state
    * Intoxication from drug or alcohol use
    * Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome (a long-term effect of excessive alcohol consumption or malnutrition)
    * Withdrawal from drugs (such as sedative-hypnotics and corticosteroids) 

INFECTIONS

    * Any sudden onset (acute) or long-term (chronic) infection
    * Blood poisoning (septicemia)
    * Brain infection (encephalitis)
    * Meningitis (infection of the lining of the brain and spinal cord)
    * Prion infections, such as mad cow disease
    * Late-stage syphilis 

Complications of cancer and cancer treatment with chemotherapy can also lead
to neurocognitive disorder.

Other conditions that may mimic organic brain syndrome include:

    * Depression
    * Neurosis
    * Psychosis

## Symptoms

Symptoms can differ based on the disease. In general, organic brain syndrome
causes:

    * Agitation
    * Confusion
    * Long-term loss of brain function (dementia)
    * Severe, short-term loss of brain function (delirium) 

## Exams and Tests

Tests depend on the disorder, but may include:

    * Blood tests 
    * Electroencephalogram (EEG) 
    * Head CT scan
    * Head MRIÂ 
    * Lumbar puncture (spinal tap)

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the underlying condition. Many conditions are treated
mainly with rehabilitation and supportive care to help the person with
activities lost due to areas where brain function is affected.

Medicines may be needed to reduce aggressive behaviors that can occur with
some of the conditions.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Some disorders are short-term and reversible. But many are long-term or get
worse over time.

## Possible Complications

People with neurocognitive disorder often lose the ability to interact with
others or function on their own.

##  When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

    * You have been diagnosed with organic brain syndrome and you are uncertain about the exact disorder.
    * You have symptoms of this condition.
    * You have been diagnosed with neurocognitive disorderÂ and your symptoms become worse.

## Alternative Names

Organic mental disorder (OMS); Organic brain syndrome

## Images

    * ![Brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1074t.jpg)Brain

## References

Beck BJ, Tompkins KJ. Mental disorders due to another medical condition. In:
Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General
Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 21.

Douglas VC, Josephson SA. Dementia and systemic disease. In: Aminoff MJ,
Josephson SA, eds. _Aminoff's Neurology and General Medicine_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2014:chap 61.

Fernandez-Robles C, Greenberg, DB, and Pirl, WF. Psycho-oncology: Psychiatric
Co-morbidities and Complications of Cancer and Cancer Treatment. In: Stern TA,
Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General Hospital
Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry._ 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 56.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Joseph V. Campellone, MD, Department of Neurology, Cooper Medical
School at Rowan University, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update
10/02/2019.

![Dementia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dementia_thumb.jpg)Dementia _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

