Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000744.htm    
                                Description: Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is a rare form of dementia that is similar to Alzheimer disease, except that it tends to affect only certain areas of the brain.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Frontotemporal dementia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000744.htm

# Frontotemporal dementia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is a rare form of dementia that is similar to
Alzheimer disease, except that it tends to affect only certain areas of the
brain.

## Causes

People with FTD have abnormal substances (called tangles, Pick bodies, and
Pick cells, and tau proteins) inside nerve cells in the damaged areas of the
brain.

The exact cause of the abnormal substances is unknown. Many different abnormal
genes have been found that can cause FTD. Some cases of FTD are passed down
through families.

FTD is rare. It can occur in people as young as 20. But it usually begins
between ages 40 and 60. The average age at which it begins is 54.

## Symptoms

The disease gets worse slowly. Tissues in parts of the brain shrink over time.
Symptoms such as behavior changes, speech difficulty, and problems thinking
occur slowlyÂ and get worse.

Early personality changes can help doctors tell FTD apart from Alzheimer
disease. (Memory loss is often the main, and earliest, symptom of Alzheimer
disease.)

People with FTD tend to behave the wrong way in different social settings. The
changes in behavior continue to get worse and are often one of the most
disturbing symptoms of the disease. Some persons have more difficulty with
decision making, complex tasks, or language (trouble finding or understanding
words or writing).

General symptoms include:

BEHAVIORAL CHANGES:

    * Not able toÂ keep a job
    * Compulsive behaviors
    * Inappropriate behavior
    * Inability to function or interact in social or personal situations
    * Problems with personal hygiene
    * Repetitive behavior
    * Withdrawal from social interaction 

EMOTIONAL CHANGES

    * Abrupt mood changes
    * Decreased interest in daily living activities
    * Failure to recognize changes in behavior
    * Failure to show emotional warmth, concern, empathy, sympathy
    * Inappropriate mood
    * Not caring about events or environment 

LANGUAGE CHANGES

    * CannotÂ speak (mutism)
    * Decreased ability to read or write
    * Difficulty finding a word
    * Difficulty speaking or understanding speech (aphasia)
    * Repeating anything spoken to them (echolalia)
    * Shrinking vocabulary
    * Weak, uncoordinated speech sounds 

NERVOUS SYSTEM PROBLEMS

    * Increased muscle tone (rigidity)
    * Memory loss that gets worse
    * Movement/coordination difficulties (apraxia)
    * Weakness

OTHER PROBLEMS

    * Urinary incontinence

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will ask about the medical history and symptoms.

Tests may be ordered to help rule out other causes of dementia, including
dementia due to metabolic causes. FTD is diagnosed based on symptoms and
results of tests, including:

    * Assessment of the mind and behavior (neuropsychological assessment)
    * Brain MRI
    * Electroencephalogram (EEG)
    * Examination of the brain and nervous system (neurological exam)
    * Examination of the fluid around the central nervous system (cerebrospinal fluid) after a lumbar puncture
    * Head CT scan
    * Tests of sensation, thinking and reasoning (cognitive function), and motor function
    * Newer methods that test brain metabolism or protein deposits may better allow for more accurate diagnosis in the future 

A brain biopsy is the only test that can confirm the diagnosis.

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for FTD. Medicines may help manage mood swings.

Sometimes, people with FTD take the same medicines used to treat other types
of dementia.

In some cases, stopping or changing medicines that worsen confusion or that
are notÂ needed can improve thinking and other mental functions. Medicines
include:

    * Analgesics
    * Anticholinergics
    * Central nervous system depressants
    * Cimetidine
    * Lidocaine 

It is important to treat any disorders that can cause confusion. These
include:

    * Anemia
    * Decreased oxygen (hypoxia) level
    * Heart failure
    * High carbon dioxide level
    * Infections
    * Kidney failure
    * Liver failure
    * Nutritional disorders
    * Thyroid disorders
    * Mood disorders, such as depression

Medicines may be needed to control aggressive, dangerous, or agitated
behaviors.

Behavior modification can help some people control unacceptable or dangerous
behaviors. This consists of rewarding appropriate or positive behaviors and
ignoring inappropriate behaviors (when it isÂ safe to do so).

Talk therapy (psychotherapy) does not always work. This is because it can
cause further confusion or disorientation.

Reality orientation, which reinforces environmental and other cues, may help
reduce disorientation.

Depending on the symptoms and severity of the disease, monitoring and help
with personal hygiene and self-care may be needed. Eventually, there may be a
need for 24-hour care and monitoring at home or in a special facility. Family
counseling can help the person cope with the changes needed for home care.

Care may include:

    * Adult protective services
    * Community resources
    * Homemakers
    * Visiting nurses or aides
    * Volunteer services 

People with FTD and their family may need to seek legal advice early in the
course of the disorder. Advance care directive, power of attorney, and other
legal actions can make it easier to make decisions regarding the care of the
person with FTD.

## Support Groups

Some communities may have support groups, such asÂ for Alzheimer diseaseÂ and
elder care.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The disorder quickly and steadily becomes worse. The person becomes totally
disabled early in the course of the disease.

FTD commonly causes death within 8 to 10 years, usually from infection, or
sometimes because body systems fail.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider or go to the emergency room if mental function gets worse.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention.

## Alternative Names

Semantic dementia; Dementia - semantic; Frontotemporal dementia; FTD; Arnold
Pick disease; Pick disease; 3R tauopathy

## Images

    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system
    * ![Brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1074t.jpg)Brain
    * ![Brain and nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8680t.jpg)Brain and nervous system

## References

Bang J, Spina S, Miller BL. Frontotemporal dementia. _Lancet_.
2015;386(10004):1672-1682. PMID: 26595641
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26595641.

Peterson R, Graff-Radford J. Alzheimer disease and other dementias. In: Daroff
RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 95.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Joseph V. Campellone, MD, Department of Neurology, Cooper Medical
School at Rowan University, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Dementia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dementia_thumb.jpg)Dementia _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

