Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000028.htm    
                                Description: If your loved one has dementia, deciding when they can no longer drive may be difficult. They may react in different ways.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dementia and driving

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000028.htm

# Dementia and driving

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If your loved one has dementia, deciding when they can no longer drive may be
difficult. They may react in different ways.

    * They may be aware they are having problems, and they may be relieved to stop driving.
    * They may feel their independence is being taken away. 

## Signs That Driving may no Longer be Safe

People with signs of dementia should have regular driving tests. Even if they
pass a driving test, they should be retested in 6 months.

If your loved one does not want you getting involved in their driving, get
help from their health care provider, lawyer, or other family members.

Even before you see driving problems in someone with dementia, look for signs
that the person may not be able to drive safely, such as:

    * Forgetting recent events
    * Mood swings or getting angry more easily
    * Problems doing more than one task at a time
    * Problems judging distance
    * Trouble making decisions and solving problems
    * Becoming confused more easily 

Signs that driving may be getting more dangerous include:

    * Getting lost on familiar roads
    * Reacting more slowly in traffic
    * Driving too slowly or stopping for no reason
    * Not noticing or paying attention to traffic signs
    * Taking chances on the road
    * Drifting into other lanes
    * Getting more agitated in traffic
    * Getting scrapes or dents on the car
    * Having trouble parking 

## Steps to Take

It may help to set limits when driving problems start.

    * Stay off busy roads, or do not drive at times of the day when traffic is heaviest.
    * Do not drive at night when it is hard to see landmarks.
    * Do not drive when the weather is bad.
    * Do not drive long distances.
    * Drive only on roads the person is used to. 

Caregivers should try to lessen the person's need to drive without making them
feel isolated. Have someone deliver groceries, meals, or prescriptions to
their home. Find a barber or hairdresser who will make home visits. Arrange
for family and friends to visit and take them out for a few hours at a time.

Plan other ways to get your loved one places. Family members or friends,
buses, taxis, and senior transportation services may be available.

As danger to others or to your loved one increases, you may need to prevent
them from being able to use the car. Ways to do this include:

    * Hiding the car keys
    * Leaving out car keys that will not start the car
    * Disabling the car so it will not start
    * Selling the car
    * Storing the car away from the home 

## Images

    * ![Alzheimer disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23214t.jpg)Alzheimer disease

## References

Budson AE, Solomon PR. Life adjustments for memory loss, Alzheimer's disease,
and dementia. In: Budson AE, Solomon PR, eds. _Memory Loss, Alzheimer's
Disease, and Dementia: A Practical Guide for Clinicians_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 25.

Carr DB, O'Neill D. Mobility and safety issues in drivers with dementia. _Int
Psychogeriatr_. 2015;27(10):1613-1622. PMID: 26111454
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26111454.

## Read More

    * Alzheimer disease
    * Brain aneurysm repair
    * Dementia
    * Stroke

## Patient Instructions

    * Communicating with someone with aphasia
    * Communicating with someone with dysarthria
    * Dementia - behavior and sleep problems
    * Dementia - daily care
    * Dementia - keeping safe in the home
    * Dementia - what to ask your doctor 
    * Dry mouth during cancer treatment
    * Stroke - discharge 

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Dementia
    * Impaired Driving

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

