Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000029.htm    
                                Description: People with dementia, often have certain problems when it gets dark at the end of the day and into the night. This problem is called sundowning. The problems that get worse include:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dementia - behavior and sleep problems

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000029.htm

# Dementia - behavior and sleep problems

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

People with dementia, often have certain problems when it gets dark at the end
of the day and into the night. This problem is called sundowning. The problems
that get worse include:

    * Increased confusion
    * Anxiety and agitation
    * Not being able to get to sleep and stay asleep 

## Tips for Behavior and Sleep Problems

Having a daily routine may help. Calmly reassuring and giving cues to orient
the person who has dementia is also helpful in the evening and closer to
bedtime. Try to keep the person going to bed at the same time every night.

Calm activities at the end of the day and before bedtime may help the person
with dementia sleep better at night. If they are active during the day, these
calm activities can make them tired and better able to sleep.

Avoid loud noises and activity in the home at night, so the person does not
wake up once they are asleep.

DO NOT restrain a person with dementia when they are in bed. If you are using
a hospital bed that has guard rails in the home, putting the rails up may help
keep the person from wandering at night.

Always talk with the person's health care provider before giving them store-
bought sleep medicines. Many sleep aids can make confusion worse.

If the person with dementia has hallucinations (sees things that are not
there):

    * Try to decrease the stimulation around them. Help them avoid things with bright colors or bold patterns.
    * Make sure there is enough light so that there are no shadows in the room. But DO NOT make rooms so bright that there is a glare.
    * Help them avoid movies or television shows that are violent or action-packed. 

Take the person to places where they can move around and exercise during the
day, such as shopping malls.

If the person who has dementia has an angry outburst, try not to touch or
restrain them -- only do so if you need to for safety. If possible, try to
stay calm and distract the person during outbursts. Do not take their behavior
personally. Call 911 if you or the person with dementia is in danger.

Try to prevent them from getting hurt if they start wandering.

Also, try to keep the person's home stress-free.

    * Keep lighting low, but not so low that there are shadows.
    * Take down mirrors or cover them.
    * DO NOT use bare light bulbs. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call the person's provider if:

    * You think medicines may be the cause of changes in the behavior of the person who has dementia.
    * You think the person may not be safe at home. 

## Alternative Names

Sundowning - care

## Images

    * ![Alzheimer disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23214t.jpg)Alzheimer disease

## References

Budson AE, Solomon PR. Evaluating the behavioral and psychological symptoms of
dementia. In: Budson AE, Solomon PR, eds. _Memory Loss, Alzheimer's Disease,
and Dementia: A Practical Guide for Clinicians_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 21.

Khachiyants N, Trinkle D, Son SJ, Kim KY. Sundown syndrome in persons with
dementia: an update. _Psychiatry Investig_. 2011;8(4):275-287. PMID: 22216036
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22216036.

## Read More

    * Alzheimer disease
    * Brain aneurysm repair
    * Dementia
    * Stroke

## Patient Instructions

    * Communicating with someone with aphasia
    * Communicating with someone with dysarthria
    * Dementia and driving
    * Dementia - daily care
    * Dementia - keeping safe in the home
    * Dementia - what to ask your doctor 
    * Dry mouth during cancer treatment
    * Stroke - discharge 
    * Swallowing problems 

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Dementia

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

