Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/mental-health-screening/    
                                Description: A mental health screening helps find out if you have a mental disorder. Many mental disorders can be treated successfully with medicine and/or talk therapy. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Mental Health Screening

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/mental-health-screening/

# Mental Health Screening

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a mental health screening?

A mental health screening is an exam of your emotional health. It helps find
out if you have a mental disorder. Mental disorders are common. They affect
more than half of all Americans at some point in their lives. There are many
types of mental disorders. Some of the most common disorders include:

    *  **Depression** **Â and mood disorders.** These mental disorders are different than normal sadness or grief. They can cause extreme sadness, anger, and/or frustration.
    *  **Anxiety** **Â disorders.** Anxiety can cause excessive worry or fear at real or imagined situations.
    *  **Eating disorders** **.** These disorders cause obsessive thoughts and behaviors related to food and body image. Eating disorders may cause people to severely limit the amount of food they eat, excessively overeat (binge), or do a combination of both.
    *  **Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)** **.** ADHD is one of the most common mental disorders in children. It can also continue into adulthood. People with ADHD have trouble paying attention and controlling impulsive behavior.
    *  **Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)** **.** This disorder can happen after you live through a traumatic life event, such as a war or serious accident. People with PTSD feel stressed and afraid, even long after the danger is over.
    *  **Substance abuse and addictive disorders.** These disorders involve excessive use of alcohol or drugs. People with substance abuse disorders are at risk for overdose and death.
    *  **Bipolar disorder** **, formerly called manic depression.** People with bipolar disorder have alternating episodes of mania (extreme highs) and depression.
    *  **Schizophrenia andÂ** **psychotic disorders** **.** These are among the most serious psychiatric disorders. They can cause people to see, hear, and/or believe things that aren't real.

The effects of mental disorders range from mild to severe to life-threatening.
Fortunately, many people with mental disorders can be successfully treated
with medicine and/or talk therapy.

Other names: mental health assessment, mental illness test, psychological
evaluation, psychology test, psychiatric evaluation

## What is it used for?

A mental health screening is used to help diagnose mental disorders. Your
primary care provider may use a mental health screening to see if you need to
go to a mental health provider. A mental health provider is a health care
professional that specializes in diagnosing and treating mental health
problems. If you are already seeing a mental health provider, you may get a
mental health screening to help guide your treatment.

## Why do I need a mental health screening?

You may need a mental health screening if you have symptoms of a mental
disorder. Symptoms vary depending on the type of disorder, but common signs
may include:

    * Excessive worrying or fear
    * Extreme sadness
    * Major changes in personality, eating habits, and/or sleeping patterns
    * Dramatic mood swings
    * Anger, frustration, or irritability
    * Fatigue and lack of energy
    * Confused thinking and trouble concentrating
    * Feelings of guilt or worthlessness
    * Avoidance of social activities

 **One of the most serious signs of a mental disorder is thinking about or
attemptingsuicide.** If you are thinking about hurting yourself or about
suicide, seek help right away. There are many ways to get help. You can:

    * Call 911 or your local emergency room
    * Call your mental health provider or other health care provider
    * Reach out to a loved one or close friend
    * Call a suicide hotline. In the United States, you can call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-TALK (1-800-273-8255)
    * If you are a veteran, call the Veterans Crisis Line at 1-800-273-8255 or send a text to 838255

## What happens during a mental health screening?

Your primary care provider may give you a physical exam and ask you about your
feelings, mood, behavior patterns, and other symptoms. Your provider may also
order a blood test to find out if a physical disorder, such as thyroid
disease, may be causing mental health symptoms.

During a blood test, a health care professional will take a blood sample from
a vein in your arm, using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a
small amount of blood will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel
a little sting when the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than
five minutes.

If you are being tested by a mental health provider, he or she may ask you
more detailed questions about your feelings and behaviors. You may also be
asked to fill out a questionnaire about these issues.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for a mental health screening?

You don't need any special preparations for a mental health screening.

## Are there any risks to screening?

There is no risk to having a physical exam or taking a questionnaire.

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

If you are diagnosed with a mental disorder, it's important to get treatment
as soon as possible. Treatment may help prevent long-term suffering and
disability. Your specific treatment plan will depend on the type of disorder
you have and how serious it is.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a mental health screening?

There are many types of providers who treat mental disorders. The most common
types of mental health providers include:

    *  **Psychiatrist** , a medical doctor who specializes in mental health. Psychiatrists diagnose and treat mental health disorders. They can also prescribe medicine.
    *  **Psychologist** , a professional trained in psychology. Psychologists generally have doctoral degrees. But they do not have medical degrees. Psychologists diagnose and treat mental health disorders. They offer one-on-one counseling and/or group therapy sessions. They can't prescribe medicine, unless they have a special license. Some psychologists work with providers who are able to prescribe medicine.
    *  **Licensed clinical social worker** (L.C.S.W.) has a master's degree in social work with training in mental health. Some have additional degrees and training. L.C.S.W.s diagnose and provide counseling for a variety of mental health problems. They can't prescribe medicine, but can work with providers who are able to.
    *  **Licensed professional counselor.** (L.P.C.). Most L.P.C.s have a master's degree. But training requirements vary by state. L.P.C.s diagnose and provide counseling for a variety of mental health problems. They can't prescribe medicine, but can work with providers who are able to.

C.S.W.s and L.P.C.s may be known by other names, including therapist,
clinician, or counselor.

If you don't know which type of mental health provider you should see, talk to
your primary care provider.

## References

    1. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Learn About Mental Health [updated 2018 Jan 26; cited 2018 Oct 19]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/mentalhealth/learn
    2. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Mental health providers: Tips on finding one; 2017 May 16 [cited 2018 Oct 19]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/mental-illness/in-depth/mental-health-providers/art-20045530
    3. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Mental illness: Diagnosis and treatment; 2015 Oct 13 [cited 2018 Oct 19]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/mental-illness/diagnosis-treatment/drc-20374974
    4. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Mental illness: Symptoms and causes; 2015 Oct 13 [cited 2018 Oct 19]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/mental-illness/symptoms-causes/syc-20374968
    5. Michigan Medicine: University of Michigan [Internet]. Ann Arbor (MI): Regents of the University of Michigan; c1995â2018. Mental Health Assessment: How It Is Done [cited 2018 Oct 19]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.uofmhealth.org/health-library/aa79756#tp16780
    6. Michigan Medicine: University of Michigan [Internet]. Ann Arbor (MI): Regents of the University of Michigan; c1995â2018. Mental Health Assessment: Results [cited 2018 Oct 19]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uofmhealth.org/health-library/aa79756#tp16783
    7. Michigan Medicine: University of Michigan [Internet]. Ann Arbor (MI): Regents of the University of Michigan; c1995â2018. Mental Health Assessment: Test Overview [cited 2018 Oct 19]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uofmhealth.org/health-library/aa79756
    8. Michigan Medicine: University of Michigan [Internet]. Ann Arbor (MI): Regents of the University of Michigan; c1995â2018. Mental Health Assessment: Why It Is Done [cited 2018 Oct 19]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uofmhealth.org/health-library/aa79756#tp16778
    9. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2018. Overview of Mental Illness [cited 2018 Oct 19]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/mental-health-disorders/overview-of-mental-health-care/overview-of-mental-illness
    10. National Alliance on Mental Illness [Internet]. Arlington (VA): NAMI; c2018. Know the Warning Signs [cited 2018 Oct 19]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.nami.org/Learn-More/Know-the-Warning-Signs
    11. National Alliance on Mental Illness [Internet]. Arlington (VA): NAMI; c2018. Mental Health Screening [cited 2018 Oct 19]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nami.org/Learn-More/Mental-Health-Public-Policy/Mental-Health-Screening
    12. National Alliance on Mental Illness [Internet]. Arlington (VA): NAMI; c2018. Types of Mental Health Professionals [cited 2018 Oct 19]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nami.org/Learn-More/Treatment/Types-of-Mental-Health-Professionals
    13. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2018 Oct 19]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    14. National Institute of Mental Health [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Eating Disorders [updated 2016 Feb; cited 2018 Oct 19]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/eating-disorders/index.shtml
    15. National Institute of Mental Health [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Mental Illness [updated 2017 Nov; cited 2018 Oct 19]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/statistics/mental-illness.shtml
    16. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: Comprehensive Psychiatric Evaluation [cited 2018 Oct 19]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=85&contentid=P00752

## Related Health Topics

    * Alcohol
    * Antidepressants
    * Anxiety
    * Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder
    * Bipolar Disorder
    * Depression
    * Drug Use and Addiction
    * Eating Disorders
    * Mental Disorders
    * Mental Health
    * Opioid Misuse and Addiction
    * Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder
    * Postpartum Depression
    * Psychotic Disorders

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Depression Screening
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Postpartum Depression Screening

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

