Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007428.htm    
                                Description: Dementia is a loss of cognitive function that occurs with certain diseases. It affects memory, thinking, and behavior.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dementia - home care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007428.htm

# Dementia - home care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Dementia is a loss of cognitive function that occurs with certain diseases. It
affects memory, thinking, and behavior.

## Information

A loved one with dementia will need support in the home as the disease gets
worse. You can help by trying to understand how the person with dementia
perceives their world. Give the person a chance to talk about any challenges
and take part in their own daily care.

Start by talking with your loved one's health care provider. Ask how you can:

    * Help the person stay calm and oriented
    * Make dressing and grooming easier
    * Talk to the person
    * Help with memory loss
    * Manage behavior and sleep problems
    * Encourage activities that are both stimulating and enjoyable 

Tips for reducing confusion in people with dementia include:

    * Have familiar objects and people around. Family photo albums can be useful.
    * Keep lights on at night.
    * Use reminders, notes, lists of routine tasks, or directions for daily activities.
    * Stick to a simple activity schedule.
    * Talk about current events. 

Taking regular walks with a caregiver can help improve communication skills
and prevent wandering.

Calming music may reduce wandering and restlessness, ease anxiety, and improve
sleep and behavior.

People with dementia should have their eyes and ears checked. If problems are
found, hearing aids, glasses, or cataract surgery may be needed.

People with dementia should also have regular driving tests. At some point, it
won't be safe for them to continue to drive. This may not be an easy
conversation. Seek help from their provider and other family members. State
laws vary on the ability of a person with dementia to continue to drive.

Supervised meals can help with feeding. People with dementia often forget to
eat and drink, and can become dehydrated as a result. Talk to the provider
about the need for extra calories due to increased physical activity from
restlessness and wandering.

Also talk to the provider about:

    * Watching for risk of choking and what to do if choking occurs
    * How to increase safety in the home
    * How to prevent falls
    * Ways to improve bathroom safety 

The Alzheimer's Association's Safe Return Program requires people with
dementia to wear an identification bracelet. If they wander, their caregiver
can contact the police and the national Safe Return office, where information
about them is stored and shared nationwide.

Eventually, people with dementia may need 24-hour monitoring and assistance to
provide a safe environment, control aggressive or agitated behavior, and meet
their needs.

LONG-TERM CARE

A person with dementia may need monitoring and help at home or in an
institution. Possible options include:

    * Adult day care
    * Boarding homes
    * Nursing homes
    * In-home care 

Many organizations are available to help you care for a person with dementia.
They include:

    * Adult protective services
    * Community resources
    * Local or state government departments of aging
    * Visiting nurses or aides
    * Volunteer services 

In some communities, dementia-related support groups may be available. Family
counseling can help family members cope with home care.

Advance directives, power of attorney, and other legal actions may make it
easier to decide on care for the person with dementia. Seek legal advice
early, before the person is unable to make these decisions.

There are support groups that can provide information and resources for people
with Alzheimer disease and their caregivers.

## Alternative Names

Caring for someone with dementia; Home care - dementia

## References

Budson AE, Solomon PR. Life adjustments for memory loss, Alzheimer's disease,
and dementia. In: Budson AE, Solomon PR, eds. _Memory Loss, Alzheimer's
Disease, and Dementia_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 25.

Budson AE, Solomon PR. Why diagnose and treat memory loss, Alzheimer's
disease, and dementia? In: Budson AE, Solomon PR, eds. _Memory Loss,
Alzheimer's Disease, and Dementia_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 1.

Peterson R, Graff-Radford J. Alzheimer disease and other dementias. In: Daroff
RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 95.

Schulte OJ, Stephens J, OTR/L JA. Aging, dementia, and disorders of cognition.
Umphred DA, Burton GU, Lazaro RT, Roller ML, eds. _Umphred's Neurological
Rehabilitation_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Mosby; 2013:chap 27.

## Review Date 4/21/2019

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, FAAN, Attending Neurologist and
Assistant Professor of Clinical Neurology, Stony Brook University School of
Medicine, Stony Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Alzheimer's
Caregivers](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AlzheimersCaregiver_thumb.jpg)Alzheimer's
Caregivers _Read more_

![Alzheimer's
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Alzheimers_thumb.jpg)Alzheimer's
Disease _Read more_

![Dementia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dementia_thumb.jpg)Dementia _Read
more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

