Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003629.htm    
                                Description: Synovial fluid analysis is a group of tests that examine joint (synovial) fluid. The tests help diagnose and treat joint-related problems.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Synovial fluid analysis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003629.htm

# Synovial fluid analysis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Synovial fluid analysis is a group of tests that examine joint (synovial)
fluid. The tests help diagnose and treat joint-related problems.

## How the Test is Performed

A sample of synovial fluid is needed for this test. Synovial fluid is normally
a thick, straw-colored liquid found in small amounts in joints.

After the skin around the joint is cleaned, the health care provider inserts a
sterile needle through the skin and into the joint space. Fluid is then drawn
through the needle into a sterile syringe.

The fluid sample is sent to the laboratory. The laboratory technician:

    * Checks the sample's color and how clear it is
    * Places the sample under a microscope, counts the number of red and white blood cells, and looks for crystals (in the case of gout) or bacteria
    * Measures glucose, proteins, uric acid, and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH)
    * Measures the concentration of cells in the fluid
    * Cultures the fluid to see if any bacteria grow

## How to Prepare for the Test

Normally, no special preparation is needed. Tell your provider if you are
taking a blood thinner, such as aspirin, warfarin (Coumadin) or clopidogrel
(Plavix). These medicines can affect test results or your ability to take the
test.

## How the Test will Feel

Sometimes, the provider will first inject numbing medicine into the skin with
a small needle, which will sting. A larger needle is then used to draw out the
synovial fluid.

This test may also cause some discomfort if the tip of the needle touches
bone. The procedure usually lasts less than 1 to 2 minutes. It may be longer
if there is a large amount of fluid that needs to be removed.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test can help diagnose the cause of pain, redness, or swelling in joints.

Sometimes, removing the fluid can also help relieve joint pain.

This test may be used when your doctor suspects:

    * Bleeding in the joint after a joint injury
    * Gout and other types of arthritis
    * Infection in a joint

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal joint fluid may look cloudy or abnormally thick.

The following found in joint fluid can be a sign of a health problem:

    * Blood -- injury in the joint or a body-wide bleeding problem
    * Pus -- infection in the joint
    * Too much joint fluid -- osteoarthritis or cartilage, ligament, or meniscus injury

## Risks

Risks of this test include:

    * Infection of the joint -- unusual, but more common with repeated aspirations
    * Bleeding into the joint space

## Considerations

Ice or cold packs may be applied to the joint for 24 to 36 hours after the
test to reduce the swelling and joint pain. Depending on the exact problem,
you can probably resume your normal activities after the procedure. Talk to
your provider to determine what activity is most appropriate for you.

## Alternative Names

Joint fluid analysis; Joint fluid aspiration

## Images

    * ![Joint aspiration](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9245t.jpg)Joint aspiration

## References

El-Gabalawy HS. Synovial fluid analysis, synovial biopsy, and synovial
pathology. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC, Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds.
_Kelley and Firestein's Textbook of Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 53.

Pisetsky DS. Laboratory testing in the rheumatic diseases. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 257.

## Review Date 4/21/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Gout](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Gout_thumb.jpg)Gout _Read more_

![Joint Disorder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/JointDisorder_thumb.jpg)Joint
Disorders _Read more_

![Osteoarthritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Osteoarthritis_thumb.jpg)Osteoarthritis
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

