Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/erythrocyte-sedimentation-rate-esr/    
                                Description: An erythrocyte sedimentation rate measures how quickly red blood cells settle in a test tube. It can help detect inflammation in the body. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate (ESR)

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/erythrocyte-sedimentation-
rate-esr/

# Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate (ESR)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is an erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR)?

An erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) is a type of blood test that measures
how quickly erythrocytes (red blood cells) settle at the bottom of a test tube
that contains a blood sample. Normally, red blood cells settle relatively
slowly. A faster-than-normal rate may indicate inflammation in the body.
Inflammation is part of your immune response system. It can be a reaction to
an infection or injury. Inflammation may also be a sign of a chronic disease,
an immune disorder, or other medical condition.

Other names: ESR, SED rate sedimentation rate; Westergren sedimentation rate

## What is it used for?

An ESR test can help determine if you have a condition that causes
inflammation. These include arthritis, vasculitis, or inflammatory bowel
disease. An ESR may also be used to monitor an existing condition.

## Why do I need an ESR?

Your health care provider may order an ESR if you have symptoms of an
inflammatory disorder. These include:

    * Headaches
    * Fever
    * Weight loss
    * Joint stiffness
    * Neck or shoulder pain
    * Loss of appetite
    * Anemia

## What happens during an ESR?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for an ESR?

You don't need any special preparations for this test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having an ESR. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

If your ESR is high, it may be related to an inflammatory condition, such as:

    * Infection
    * Rheumatoid arthritis
    * Rheumatic fever
    * Vascular disease
    * Inflammatory bowel disease
    * Heart disease
    * Kidney disease
    * Certain cancers

Sometimes the ESR can be slower than normal. A slow ESR may indicate a blood
disorder, such as:

    * Polycythemia
    * Sickle cell anemia
    * Leukocytosis, an abnormal increase in white blood cells

If your results are not in the normal range, it doesn't necessarily mean you
have a medical condition that requires treatment. A moderate ESR may indicate
pregnancy, menstruation, or anemia, rather than an inflammatory disease.
Certain medicines and supplements can also affect your results. These include
oral contraceptives, aspirin, cortisone, and vitamin A. Be sure to tell your
health care provider about any drugs or supplements you are taking.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about an ESR?

An ESR does not specifically diagnose any diseases, but it can provide
information about whether or not there is inflammation in your body. If your
ESR results are abnormal, your health care provider will need more information
and will likely order more lab tests before making a diagnosis.

## References

    1. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate (ESR); p. 267â68.
    2. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. ESR: The Test; [updated 2014 May 30; cited 2017 Feb 26]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/esr/tab/test/
    3. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. ESR: The Test Sample; [updated 2014 May 30; cited 2017 May 3]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/esr/tab/sample/
    4. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What Are the Risks of Blood Tests?; [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Feb 26]; [about 6 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests#Risk-Factors
    5. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What To Expect with Blood Tests; [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Feb 26]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    6. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate; [cited 2017 May 3]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid;=erythrocyte_sedimentation_rate

## Related Health Topics

    * Arthritis
    * Autoimmune Diseases
    * Crohn's Disease
    * Ulcerative Colitis

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 February 2020 Page last reviewed: 25 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

