Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003808.htm    
                                Description: A bone x-ray is an imaging test to look at the bones.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bone x-ray

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003808.htm

# Bone x-ray

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A bone x-ray is an imaging test to look at the bones.

## How the Test is Performed

The test is done in a hospital radiology department or in the health care
provider's office by an x-ray technician. For the test, you will position the
bone to be x-rayed on the table. Pictures are then taken, and the bone is
repositioned for different views.

## How to Prepare for the Test

TellÂ the health care provider if you are pregnant. You must remove all
jewelry for the x-ray.

## How the Test will Feel

The x-rays are painless. Changing position for getting different views of the
bone may be uncomfortable.

## Why the Test is Performed

A bone x-ray is used to look for injuries or conditionsÂ affecting the bone.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal findings include:

    * Fractures or broken bone
    * Bone tumors
    * Degenerative bone conditions
    * Osteomyelitis (inflammation of the bone caused by an infection)

Additional conditions under which the test may be performed:

    * Cystic fibrosis
    * Multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) II
    * Multiple myeloma
    * Osgood-Schlatter disease
    * Osteogenesis imperfecta
    * Osteomalacia
    * Paget's disease
    * Primary hyperparathyroidism
    * Rickets

## Risks

There is low radiation exposure. X-ray machines are set to provide the
smallest amount of radiation exposure needed to produce the image. Most
experts feel that the risk is low compared with the benefits.

Children and the fetuses of pregnant women are more sensitive to the risks of
the x-ray. A protective shield may be worn over areas not being scanned.

## Alternative Names

X-ray - bone

## Images

    * ![Skeleton](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1115t.jpg)Skeleton
    * ![Skeletal spine](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1116t.jpg)Skeletal spine
    * ![Osteogenic sarcoma - X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1232t.jpg)Osteogenic sarcoma - x-ray

## References

Bearcroft PWP, Hopper MA. Imaging techniques and fundamental observations for
the musculoskeletal system. In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop
CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic Radiology: A Textbook of Medical
Imaging_. 6th ed. New York, NY: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 45.

Contreras F, Perez J, Jose J. Imaging overview. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR.
eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 7.

## Review Date 5/13/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bone Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneCancer_thumb.jpg)Bone Cancer
_Read more_

![Bone Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bone
Diseases _Read more_

![Bone
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneInfections_thumb.jpg)Bone
Infections _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

