Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003787.htm    
                                Description: A lumbosacral spine CT is a computed tomography scan of the lower spine and surrounding tissues.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lumbosacral spine CT

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003787.htm

# Lumbosacral spine CT

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A lumbosacral spine CT is a computed tomography scan of the lower spine and
surrounding tissues.

## How the Test is Performed

You will be asked to lie on a narrow table that slides into the center of the
CT scanner. You will need to lie on your back for this test.

Once inside the scanner, the machine's x-ray beam rotates around you.

Small detectors inside the scanner measure the amount of x-rays that make it
through the part of the body being studied. A computer takes this information
and uses it to create a number of images, called slices. These images can be
stored, viewed on a monitor, or printed on film. Three-dimensional models of
organs can be created by stacking the individual slices together.

You must be still during the exam, because movement causes blurred images. You
may be told to hold your breath for short periods.

In some cases, an iodine-based dye, called contrast, may be injected into your
vein before images are taken. Contrast can highlight specific areas inside the
body, which creates a clearer image.

In other cases, a CT of the lumbosacral spine is done after injecting contrast
dye into the spinal canal during a lumbar puncture to further check for
pressure on the nerves.

The scan usually lasts a few minutes.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You should remove all jewelry or other metal objects before the test. This is
because they may cause inaccurate and blurry images.

If you do need a lumbar puncture, you may be asked to stop your blood thinners
or anti-inflammatory medicines (NSAIDs) several days before the procedure.
Check with your doctor ahead of time.

## How the Test will Feel

The x-rays are painless. Some people may have discomfort from lying on the
hard table.

Contrast may cause a slight burning sensation, a metallic taste in the mouth,
and a warm flushing of the body. These sensations are normal and usually go
away within a few seconds.

## Why the Test is Performed

CT rapidly creates detailed pictures of the body. A CT of the lumbosacral
spine can evaluate fractures and changes of the spine, such as those due to
arthritis or deformities.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

CT of the lumbosacral spine may reveal the following conditions or diseases:

    * Cyst
    * Herniated disk
    * Infection
    * Cancer that has spread to the spine
    * Osteoarthritis
    * OsteomalaciaÂ (softening of the bones)
    * Pinched nerve
    * Tumor
    * Vertebral fractureÂ (broken spine bone)

## Risks

The most common type of contrast given into a vein contains iodine. If a
person with an iodine allergy is given this type of contrast, hives, itching,
nausea, breathing difficulty, or other symptoms may occur.

If you have kidney problems, diabetes or are on kidney dialysis, talk to your
health care provider before the test about your risks.

CT scans and other x-rays are strictly monitored and controlled to make sure
they use the least amount of radiation. The risk associated with any
individual scan is small. The risk increasesÂ when many more scans are
performed.

In some cases, a CT scan may still be done if the benefits greatly outweigh
the risks. For example, it can be more risky not to have the exam if your
provider thinks you might have cancer.

Pregnant or breastfeeding women should consult their provider about the risk
of CT scans to the baby. Radiation during pregnancy can affect the baby, and
the dye used with CT scans can enter breast milk.

## Alternative Names

Spinal CT; CT - lumbosacral spine; Low back pain - CT; LBP - CT

## Images

    * ![CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1088t.jpg)CT scan
    * ![Skeletal spine](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1116t.jpg)Skeletal spine
    * ![Vertebra, lumbar \(low back\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1773t.jpg)Vertebra, lumbar (low back)
    * ![Vertebra, thoracic \(mid back\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1774t.jpg)Vertebra, thoracic (mid back)
    * ![Lumbar vertebrae](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9538t.jpg)Lumbar vertebrae

## References

Shaw AS, Prokop M. Computed tomography. In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH,
Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic Radiology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 4.

Thomsen HS, Reimer P. Intravascular contrast media for radiography, CT, MRI,
and ultrasound. In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds.
_Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic Radiology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 2.

## Review Date 8/15/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![CT Scans](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CTScan_thumb.jpg)CT Scans _Read
more_

![Herniated
Disk](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HerniatedDisk_thumb.jpg)Herniated Disk
_Read more_

![Osteoarthritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Osteoarthritis_thumb.jpg)Osteoarthritis
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

