Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000423.htm    
                                Description: Osteoarthritis (OA) is the most common joint disorder. It is due to aging and wear and tear on a joint.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Osteoarthritis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000423.htm

# Osteoarthritis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Osteoarthritis (OA) is the most common joint disorder. It is due to aging and
wear and tear on a joint.

## Causes

Cartilage is the firm, rubbery tissue that cushions your bones at the joints.
It allows bones to glide over one another. When the cartilage breaks down and
wears away, the bones rub together. This often causes the pain, swelling, and
stiffness of OA.

As OA worsens, bony spurs or extra bone may form around the joint. The
ligaments and muscles around the joint may become weaker and stiffer.

![Osteoarthritis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17105.jpg)

Before age 55, OA occurs equally in men and women. After age 55, it is more
common in women.

Other factors can also lead to OA.

    * OA tends to run in families.
    * Being overweight increases the risk for OA in the hip, knee, ankle, and foot joints. This is because extra weight causes more wear and tear.
    * Fractures or other joint injuries can lead to OA later in life. This includes injuries to the cartilage and ligaments in your joints.
    * Jobs that involve kneeling or squatting for more than an hour a day, or involve lifting, climbing stairs, or walking increase the risk for OA.
    * Playing sports that involve direct impact on the joint (football), twisting (basketball or soccer), or throwing also increase the risk for OA. 

Medical conditions that can lead to OA include:

    * Bleeding disorders that cause bleeding in the joint, such as hemophilia
    * Disorders that block the blood supply near a joint and lead to bone death (avascular necrosis)
    * Other types of arthritis, such as long-term (chronic) gout, pseudogout, or rheumatoid arthritis

![Osteoarthritis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200026t.gif)Watch
this video about:Osteoarthritis

## Symptoms

Symptoms of OA often appear in middle age. Almost everyone has some symptoms
by age 70.

Pain and stiffness in the joints are the most common symptoms. The pain is
often worse:

    * After exercise
    * When you put weight or pressure on the joint 

With OA, your joints may become stiffer and harder to move over time. You may
notice a rubbing, grating, or crackling sound when you move the joint.

"Morning stiffness" refers to the pain and stiffness you feel when you first
wake up in the morning. Stiffness due to OA often lasts for 30 minutes or
less. It can last more than 30 minutes if there is inflammation in the joint.
It often improves after activity, allowing the joint to "warm up."

During the day, the pain may get worse when you are active and feel better
when you are resting. As OA gets worse, you may have pain even when you are
resting. And it may wake you up at night.

Some people might not have symptoms, even though x-rays show the changes of
OA.

## Exams and Tests

A health care provider will examine you and ask about your symptoms. The exam
may show:

    * Joint movement that causes a crackling (grating) sound, called crepitation
    * Joint swelling (bones around the joints may feel larger than normal)
    * Limited range of motion
    * Tenderness when the joint is pressed
    * Normal movement is often painful 

Blood tests are not helpful in diagnosing OA.

An x-ray will likely show:

    * Loss of the joint space
    * Wearing down of the ends of the bone
    * Bone spurs 

## Treatment

OA cannot be cured. It will most likely get worse over time. However, your OA
symptoms can be controlled.

You can have surgery, but other treatments can improve your pain and make your
life much better. Although these treatments cannot make the arthritis go away,
they can often delay surgery.

MEDICINES

Over-the-counter (OTC) pain relievers, such as acetaminophen (Tylenol) or a
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) can help with OA symptoms. You can
buy these medicines without a prescription.

It is recommended that you DO NOT take more than 3 grams (3,000 mg)Â of
acetaminophen a day. If you have liver disease, talk with your provider before
taking acetaminophen. OTC NSAIDs include aspirin, ibuprofen, and naproxen.
Several other NSAIDs are available by prescription. Talk with your provider
before taking an NSAID on a regular basis.

Duloxetine (Cymbalta) is a prescription antidepressant that can also help
treat long-term (chronic) pain related to OA.

Supplements that you may use include:

    * Pills, such as glucosamine and chondroitin sulfate
    * Capsaicin skin cream to relieve pain 

LIFESTYLE CHANGES

Staying active and getting exercise can maintain joint and overall movement.
Ask your provider to recommend an exercise routine. Water exercises, such as
swimming, are helpful.

Other lifestyle tips include:

    * Applying heat and cold to the joint
    * Eating healthy foods
    * Getting enough rest
    * Losing weight if you are overweight
    * Protecting your joints from injury 

If the pain from OA gets worse, keeping up with activities may become more
difficult or painful. Making changes around the home can help take stress off
your joints to relieve some of the pain. If your work is causing stress in
certain joints, you may need to adjust your work area or change work tasks.

PHYSICAL THERAPY

Physical therapy can help improve muscle strength and the motion of stiff
joints as well as your balance. If therapy does not make you feel better after
6 to 8 weeks, then it likely will not work at all.

Massage therapy may provide short-term pain relief. Make sure you work with a
licensed massage therapist who is experienced in working on sensitive joints.

BRACES

Splints and braces may help support weakened joints. Some types limit or
prevent the joint from moving. Others may shift pressure off one portion of a
joint. Use a brace only when your doctor or therapist recommends one. Using a
brace the wrong way can cause joint damage, stiffness, and pain.

ALTERNATIVE TREATMENTS

Acupuncture is a traditional Chinese treatment. It is thought that when
acupuncture needles stimulate certain points on the body, chemicals that block
pain are released. Acupuncture may provide short-term pain relief for OA.

Yoga and tai chi have also shown some benefit in treating the pain from OA.

S-adenosylmethionine (SAMe, pronounced "Sammy") is a manmade form of a natural
chemical in the body. It may help reduce joint inflammation and pain.

SURGERY

Severe cases of OA might need surgery to replace or repair damaged joints.
Options include:

    * Arthroscopic surgery to trim torn and damaged cartilage
    * Changing the alignment of a bone to relieve stress on the bone or joint (osteotomy)
    * Surgical fusion of bones, often in the spine (arthrodesis)
    * Total or partial replacement of the damaged joint with an artificial joint (knee replacement, hip replacement, shoulder replacement, ankle replacement, and elbow replacement) 

## Support Groups

Organizations that specialize in arthritis are good resources for more
information on OA.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Your movement may become limited over time. Doing everyday activities, such as
personal hygiene, household chores, or cooking may become a challenge.
Treatment usually improves function.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of OA that get worse.

## Prevention

Try not to overuse a painful joint at work or during activities. Maintain a
normal body weight. Keep the muscles around your joints strong, especially the
weight-bearing joints (knee, hip, or ankle).

## Alternative Names

Hypertrophic osteoarthritis; Osteoarthrosis; Degenerative joint disease; DJD;
OA; Arthritis - osteoarthritis

## Patient Instructions

    * ACL reconstruction - discharge 
    * Ankle replacement - discharge 
    * Elbow replacement - discharge 
    * Hip or knee replacement - after - what to ask your doctor 
    * Hip or knee replacement - before - what to ask your doctor 
    * Hip replacement - discharge 
    * Shoulder replacement - discharge 
    * Shoulder surgery - discharge 
    * Spine surgery - discharge
    * Using your shoulder after replacement surgery
    * Using your shoulder after surgery

## Images

    * ![Osteoarthritis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17103t.jpg)Osteoarthritis
    * ![Osteoarthritis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17105t.jpg)Osteoarthritis

## References

Block JA, Scanzello C. Osteoarthritis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 262.

Felson DT. Treatment of osteoarthritis. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC, Gabriel SE,
McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds. _Kelly and Firestein's Textbook of Rheumatology_.
10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 100.

Hochberg MC, Altman RD, April KT, et al. American College of Rheumatology 2012
recommendations for the use of nonpharmacologic and pharmacologic therapies in
osteoarthritis of the hand, hip, and knee. _Arthritis Care Res_.
2012;64(4):465-474. PMID: 22563589 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22563589.

Zhang W, Ouyang H, Dass CR, Xu J. Current research on pharmacologic and
regenerative therapies for osteoarthritis. _Bone Res_. 2016;4:15040. PMID:
PMC4772471 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4772471.

## Review Date 5/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Internal review and
update on 04/15/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Osteoarthritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Osteoarthritis_thumb.jpg)Osteoarthritis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

