Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000436.htm    
                                Description: Cervical spondylosis is a disorder in which there is wear on the cartilage (disks) and bones of the neck (cervical vertebrae). It is a common cause of chronic neck pain.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cervical spondylosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000436.htm

# Cervical spondylosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cervical spondylosis is a disorder in which there is wear on the cartilage
(disks) and bones of the neck (cervical vertebrae). It is a common cause of
chronic neck pain.

## Causes

Cervical spondylosis is caused by aging and chronic wear on the cervical
spine. This includes the disks or cushions between the neck vertebrae and the
joints between the bones of the cervical spine. There may be abnormal growths
or spurs on the bones of the spine (vertebrae).

Over time, these changes can press down on (compress) one or more of the nerve
roots. In advanced cases, the spinal cord becomes involved. This can affect
not just the arms, but the legs as well.

Everyday wear and tear may start these changes. People who are very active at
work or in sports may be more likely to have them.

The major risk factor is aging. By age 60, most people show signs of cervical
spondylosis on x-ray. Other factors that can make someone more likely to
develop spondylosis are:

    * Being overweight and not exercising
    * Having a job that requires heavy lifting or a lot of bending and twisting
    * Past neck injury (often several years before)
    * Past spine surgery
    * Ruptured or slipped disk
    * Severe arthritis 

## Symptoms

Symptoms often develop slowly over time. But they may start or get worse
suddenly. The pain may be mild, or it can be deep and so severe that you are
unable to move.

You may feel the pain over the shoulder blade. It may spread to the upper arm,
forearm, or fingers (in rare cases).

The pain may get worse:

    * After standing or sitting
    * At night
    * When you sneeze, cough, or laugh
    * When you bend the neck backward or twist your neck or walk more than a few yards or more than a few meters 

You may also have weakness in certain muscles. Sometimes, you may not notice
it until your doctor examines you. In other cases, you will notice that you
have a hard time lifting your arm, squeezing tightly with one of your hands,
or other problems.

Other common symptoms are:

    * Neck stiffness that gets worse over time
    * Numbness or abnormal sensations in the shoulders or arms
    * Headaches, especially in the back of the head
    * Pain on the inside of the shoulder blade and shoulder pain

Less common symptoms are:

    * Loss of balance
    * Pain or numbness in the legs
    * Loss of control over the bladder or bowels (if there is pressure on the spinal cord) 

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam may show that you have trouble moving your head toward your
shoulder and rotating your head.

Your health care provider may ask you to bend your head forward and to eachÂ
side while putting slight downward pressure on the top of your head. Increased
pain or numbness during this test is usually a sign that there is pressure on
a nerve in your spine.

Weakness of your shoulders and arms or loss of feeling can be signs of damage
to certain nerve roots or to the spinal cord.

A spine or neck x-ray may be done to look for arthritis or other changes in
your spine.

MRI or CT scans of the neck are done when you have:

    * Severe neck or arm pain that does not get better with treatment
    * Weakness or numbness in your arms or hands 

EMG and nerve conduction velocity test may be done to examine nerve root
function.

## Treatment

Your doctor and other health professionals can help you manage your pain so
that you can stay active.

    * Your doctor may refer you for physical therapy. The physical therapist will help you reduce your pain using stretches. The therapist will teach you exercises that make your neck muscles stronger.
    * The therapist can also use neck traction to relieve some of the pressure in your neck.
    * You may also see a massage therapist, someone who performs acupuncture, or someone who does spinal manipulation (a chiropractor, osteopathic doctor, or physical therapist). Sometimes, a few visits will help with neck pain.
    * Cold packs and heat therapy may help your pain during flare-ups. 

A type of talk therapy called cognitive behavioral therapy may be helpful if
the pain is having a serious impact on your life. This technique helps you
better understand your pain and teaches you how to manage it.

Medicines can help your neck pain. Your doctor may prescribe nonsteroidal
anti-inflammatory medicines (NSAIDs) for long-term pain control. Opioids may
be prescribed if the pain is severe and does not respond to NSAIDs.

If the pain does not respond to these treatments, or you have a loss of
movement or feeling, surgery is considered. Surgery is done to relieve the
pressure on the nerves or spinal cord.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people with cervical spondylosis have some long-term symptoms. These
symptoms improve with non-surgical treatment and do not need surgery.

Many people with this problem are able to maintain an active life. Some people
will have to live with chronic (long-term) pain.

## Possible Complications

This condition may lead to the following:

    * Inability to hold in feces (fecal incontinence) or urine (urinary incontinence)
    * Loss of muscle function or feeling
    * Permanent disability (occasionally)
    * Poor balance 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * The condition becomes worse
    * There are signs of complications
    * You develop new symptoms (such as loss of movement or feeling in an area of the body)
    * You lose control of your bladder or bowels (call right away) 

## Alternative Names

Cervical osteoarthritis; Arthritis - neck; Neck arthritis; Chronic neck pain;
Degenerative disk disease

## Images

    * ![Skeletal spine](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1116t.jpg)Skeletal spine
    * ![Cervical spondylosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9852t.jpg)Cervical spondylosis

## References

Fast A, Dudkiewicz I. Cervical degenerative disease. In: Frontera WR, Silver
JK, Rizzo TD, Jr., eds. _Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation_.
4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 3.

Kshettry VR. Cervical spondylosis. In: Steinmetz, MP, Benzel EC, eds.
_Benzel's Spine Surgery_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 96.

## Review Date 4/21/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Neck Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NeckInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Neck
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Osteoarthritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Osteoarthritis_thumb.jpg)Osteoarthritis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

