Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003399.htm    
                                Description: The pulse is the number of heartbeats per minute.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pulse

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003399.htm

# Pulse

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The pulse is the number of heartbeats per minute.

## How the Test is Performed

The pulse can be measured at areas where an artery passes close to the skin.
These areas include the:

    * Back of the knees
    * Groin
    * Neck
    * Temple
    * Top or inner side of the foot
    * Wrist 

To measure the pulse at the wrist, place the index and middle finger over the
underside of the opposite wrist, below the base of the thumb. Press with flat
fingers until you feel the pulse.

To measure the pulse on the neck, place the index and middle fingers just to
the side of the Adam's apple, in the soft, hollow area. Press gently until you
locate the pulse.

Note: Sit or lie down before taking the neck pulse. The neck arteries in some
people are sensitive to pressure. Fainting or slowing of the heartbeat can
result. Also, do not take the pulses on both sides of the neck at the same
time. Doing so can slow the flow of blood to the head and lead to fainting.

Once you find the pulse, count the beats for 1 full minute. Or, count the
beats for 30 seconds and multiply by 2. This will give the beats per minute.

## How to Prepare for the Test

To determine the resting heart rate, you must have been resting for at least
10 minutes. Take the exercise heart rate while you are exercising.

## How the Test will Feel

There is a slight pressure from the fingers.

## Why the Test is Performed

Measuring the pulse gives important information about your health. Any change
from your normal heart rate can indicate a health problem. Fast pulse may
signal an infection or dehydration. In emergency situations, the pulse rate
can help determine if the person's heart is pumping.

Pulse measurement has other uses as well. During or immediately after
exercise, the pulse rate gives information about your fitness level and
health.

## Normal Results

For resting heart rate:

    * Newborns 0 to 1 month old: 70 to 190 beats per minute
    * Infants 1 to 11 months old: 80 to 160 beats per minute
    * Children 1 to 2 years old: 80 to 130 beats per minute
    * Children 3 to 4 years old: 80 to 120 beats per minute
    * Children 5 to 6 years old: 75 to 115 beats per minute
    * Children 7 to 9 years old: 70 to 110 beats per minute
    * Children 10 years and older, and adults (including seniors): 60 to 100 beats per minute
    * Well-trained athletes: 40 to 60 beats per minute 

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Resting heart rates that are continually high (tachycardia) may mean a
problem. Talk to your health care provider about this. Also discuss resting
heart rates that are below the normal values (bradycardia).

A pulse that is very firm (bounding pulse) and that lasts for more than a few
minutes should be checked by your provider as well. An irregular pulse can
also indicate a problem.

A pulse that is hard to locate may mean blockages in the artery. These
blockages are common in people with diabetes or hardening of the artery from
high cholesterol. Your provider may order a test known as a Doppler study to
check the blockages.

## Alternative Names

Heart rate; Heart beat

## Images

    * ![Taking your carotid pulse](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19386t.jpg)Taking your carotid pulse
    * ![Radial pulse](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19395t.jpg)Radial pulse
    * ![Wrist pulse](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9799t.jpg)Wrist pulse
    * ![Neck pulse](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9800t.jpg)Neck pulse
    * ![How to take your pulse](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22942t.jpg)How to take your wrist pulse

## References

Bernstein D. History and physical examination. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF,
St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 422.

Simel DL. Approach to the patient: history and physical examination. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 7.

## Review Date 2/7/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Arrhythmia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Arrhythmia_thumb.jpg)Arrhythmia
_Read more_

![Cardiac
Rehabilitation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CardiacRehabilitation_thumb.jpg)Cardiac
Rehabilitation _Read more_

![Heart Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartDiseases_thumb.jpg)Heart
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

