Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003504.htm    
                                Description: TheÂ creatine phosphokinase (CPK) isoenzymes test measures the different forms of CPK in the blood. CPK is an enzyme found mainly in the heart, brain, and skeletal muscle.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

CPK isoenzymes test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003504.htm

# CPK isoenzymes test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

TheÂ creatine phosphokinase (CPK) isoenzymes test measures the different forms
of CPK in the blood. CPK is an enzyme found mainly in the heart, brain, and
skeletal muscle.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed. This may be taken from a vein. The test is called a
venipuncture.

If you are in the hospital, this test may be repeated over 2 or 3 days. A
significant rise or fall in the total CPK or CPK isoenzymes can help your
health care provider diagnose certain conditions.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is needed in most cases.

Tell your provider about all the medicines you are taking. Some drugs can
interfere with test results. Drugs that can increase CPK measurements include
the following:

    * Alcohol
    * Amphotericin B
    * Certain anesthetics
    * Cocaine
    * Fibrate drugs
    * Statins
    * Steroids, such as dexamethasone 

This list is not all-inclusive.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel slight pain when the needle is inserted to draw blood. Some
people feel only a prick or stinging sensation. Afterward, there may be some
throbbing.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done if a CPK test shows that your total CPK level is elevated.
CPK isoenzyme testing can help find the exact source of the damaged tissue.

CPK is made of three slightly different substances:

    * CPK-1 (also called CPK-BB) is found mostly in the brain and lungs
    * CPK-2 (also called CPK-MB) is found mostly in the heart
    * CPK-3 (also called CPK-MM) is found mostly in skeletal muscle 

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Higher-than-normal CPK-1 levels:

Because CPK-1 is found mostly in the brain and lungs, injury to either of
these areas can increase CPK-1 levels. Increased CPK-1 levels may be due to:

    * Brain cancer
    * Brain injury (due to any type of injury including, stroke, or bleeding in the brain)
    * Electroconvulsive therapy
    * Pulmonary infarction
    * Seizure

Higher-than-normal CPK-2 levels:

CPK-2 levels rise 3 to 6 hours after a heart attack. If there is no further
heart muscle damage, the level peaks at 12 to 24 hours and returns to normal
12 to 48 hours after tissue death.

Increased CPK-2 levels may also be due to:

    * Electrical injuries
    * Heart defibrillation (purposeful shocking of the heart by medical personnel)
    * Heart injury (for instance, from a car accident)
    * Inflammation of the heart muscle usually due to a virus (myocarditis)
    * Open heart surgery 

Higher-than-normal CPK-3 levels are most often a sign of muscle injury or
muscle stress. They may be due to:

    * Crush injuries
    * Muscle damage due to drugs or being immobile for a long time (rhabdomyolysis)
    * Muscular dystrophy
    * Myositis (skeletal muscle inflammation)
    * Receiving many intramuscular injections
    * Recent nerve and muscle function testing (electromyography)
    * Recent seizures
    * Recent surgery
    * Strenuous exercise 

## Considerations

Factors that can affect test results include cardiac catheterization,
intramuscular injections, recent surgery, and vigorous and prolonged exercise
or immobilization.

Isoenzyme testing for specific conditions is about 90% accurate.

## Alternative Names

Creatine phosphokinase - isoenzymes; Creatine kinase - isoenzymes; CK -
isoenzymes; Heart attack - CPK; Crush - CPK

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Anderson JL. St segment elevation acute myocardial infarction and
complications of myocardial infarction. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 73.

Marshall WJ, Day A, Lapsley M. Plasma proteins and enzymes. In: Marshall WJ,
Day A, Lapsley M, eds. _Clinical Chemistry_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 16.

Nagaraju K, Gladue HS, Lundberg IE. Inflammatory diseases of muscle and other
myopathies. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC, Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds.
_Kelley and Firestein's Textbook of Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2017:chap 85.

Selcen D. Muscle diseases. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 421.

## Review Date 1/28/2019

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Chest Pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChestPain_thumb.jpg)Chest Pain
_Read more_

![Heart Attack](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartAttack_thumb.jpg)Heart
Attack _Read more_

![Heart Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartDiseases_thumb.jpg)Heart
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

