Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003081.htm    
                                Description: Palpitations are feelings or sensations that your heart is pounding or racing. They can be felt in your chest, throat, or neck.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heart palpitations

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003081.htm

# Heart palpitations

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Palpitations are feelings or sensations that your heart is pounding or racing.
They can be felt in your chest, throat, or neck.

You may:

    * Have an unpleasant awareness of your own heartbeat
    * Feel like your heart skipped or stopped beats 

The heart's rhythm may be normal or abnormal when you have palpitations.

## Considerations

Normally the heart beats 60 to 100 times per minute. The rate may drop below
60 beats per minute in people who exercise routinely or take medicines that
slow the heart.

If your heart rate is fast (over 100 beats per minute), this is called
tachycardia. A heart rate slower than 60 is called bradycardia. An occasional
extra heartbeat is known as extrasystole.

Palpitations are not serious most of the time. Sensations representing an
abnormal heart rhythm (arrhythmia) may be more serious.

The following conditions make you more likely to have an abnormal heart
rhythm:

    * Known heart disease at the time the palpitations begin
    * Significant risk factors for heart disease
    * An abnormal heart valve
    * An electrolyte abnormality in your blood -- for example, a low potassium level 

## Causes

Heart palpitations can be due to:

    * Anxiety, stress, panic attack, or fear
    * Caffeine intake
    * Nicotine intake
    * Cocaine or other illegal drugs
    * Diet pills
    * Exercise
    * Fever

However, some palpitations are due to an abnormal heart rhythm, which may be
caused by:

    * Heart disease
    * Abnormal heart valve, such as mitral valve prolapse
    * Abnormal blood level of potassium
    * Certain medicines, including those used to treat asthma, high blood pressure, or heart problems
    * Overactive thyroid
    * Low level of oxygen in your blood 

## Home Care

Things you can do to limit palpitations include:

    * Lower your intake of caffeine and nicotine. This will often reduce heart palpitations.
    * Learn to reduce stress and anxiety. This can help prevent palpitations and help you better manage them when they occur.
    * Try deep relaxation or breathing exercises.
    * Practice yoga, meditation, or tai chi.
    * Get regular exercise.
    * Do not smoke. 
![Yoga](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19301.jpg)

Once a serious cause has been ruled out by your provider, try not to pay close
attention to heart palpitations. This may cause stress. However, contact your
provider if you notice a sudden increase or a change in them.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you have never had heart palpitations before, see your health care
provider.

Call 911 or your local emergency number if you have:

    * Loss of alertness (consciousness)
    * Chest pain
    * Shortness of breath
    * Unusual sweating
    * Dizziness or lightheadedness 

Call your provider right away if:

    * You often feel extra heartbeats (more than 6 per minute or coming in groups of 3 or more).
    * You have risk factors for heart disease, such as high cholesterol, diabetes, or high blood pressure.
    * You have new or different heart palpitations.
    * Your pulse is more than 100 beats per minute (without exercise, anxiety, or fever). 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will examine you and ask questions about your medical history
and symptoms.

You may be asked:

    * Do you feel skipped or stopped beats?
    * Does your heart rate feel slow or fast when you have the palpitations?
    * Do you feel a racing, pounding, or fluttering?
    * Is there a regular or irregular pattern to the unusual heartbeat sensations?
    * Did the palpitations begin or end suddenly?
    * When do the palpitations occur? In response to reminders of a traumatic event? When you are lying down and resting? When you change your body position? When you feel emotional?
    * Do you have any other symptoms? 

An electrocardiogram will be done.

In the emergency room, you will be connected to a heart monitor.

If your provider finds you have an abnormal heart rhythm, other tests may be
done. This may include:

    * Holter monitor for 24 hours, or another heart monitor forÂ 2 weeks or longer
    * Echocardiogram
    * Electrophysiology study (EPS)
    * Coronary angiography

## Alternative Names

Heartbeat sensations; Irregular heartbeat; Palpitations; Heart pounding or
racing

## Images

    * ![Heart chambers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19612t.jpg)Heart chambers
    * ![Heart beat](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19613t.jpg)Heart beat
    * ![Yoga](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19301t.jpg)Yoga

## References

Fang JC, O'Gara PT. History and physical examination: an evidence-based
approach. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 10.

Miller JM, Tomaselli GF, Zipes DP. Diagnosis of cardiac arrhythmias.In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 35.

Olgin JE. Approach to the patient with suspected arrhythmia. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 62.

## Review Date 5/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Arrhythmia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Arrhythmia_thumb.jpg)Arrhythmia
_Read more_

![Atrial
Fibrillation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AtrialFib_thumb.jpg)Atrial
Fibrillation _Read more_

![Heart Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartDiseases_thumb.jpg)Heart
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

