Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007268.htm    
                                Description: Ventricular assist devices (VADs) help your heart pump blood from one of the main pumping chambers to the rest of your body or to the other side of the heart. These pumps are implanted in your body. In    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ventricular assist device

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007268.htm

# Ventricular assist device

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ventricular assist devices (VADs) help your heart pump blood from one of the
main pumping chambers to the rest of your body or to the other side of the
heart. These pumps are implanted in your body. In most cases they are
connected to machinery outside your body.

![Heart - section through the
middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1056.jpg)

## Description

A ventricular assist device has 3 parts:

    * A pump. The pump weighs 1 to 2 pounds (0.5 to 1 kilogram). It is placed inside or outside of your belly.
    * An electronic controller. The controller is like a small computer that controls how the pump works.
    * Batteries or another power source. The batteries are carried outside your body. They are connected to the pump with a cable that goes into your belly. 

If you are having an implanted VAD placed, you will need general anesthesia.
This will make you sleep and be pain-free during the procedure.

During surgery:

    * The heart surgeon opens the middle of your chest with a surgical cut and then separates your breastbone. This allows access to your heart.
    * Next, the surgeon will make space for the pump under your skin and tissue in the upper part of your belly wall.
    * The surgeon will then place the pump in this space. 

A tube will connect the pump to your heart. Another tube will connect the pump
to your aorta or one of your other major arteries. Another tube will be passed
through your skin to connect the pump to the controller and batteries.

The VAD will take blood from your ventricle (one of the main pumping chambers
of the heart) through the tube that leads to the pump. Then the device will
pump the blood back out to one of your arteries and through your body.

Surgery most often lasts 4 to 6 hours.

There are other types of VADs (called percutaneous ventricular assist devices)
which can be placed with less invasive techniques to help the left or right
ventricle. However, these typically cannot provide as much flow (support) as
the surgically implanted ones.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

You may need a VAD if you have severe heart failure that cannot be controlled
with medicine, pacing devices, or other treatments. You may get this device
while you are on a waiting list for a heart transplant. Some people who get a
VAD are very ill and may already be on a heart-lung support machine.

Not everyone with severe heart failure is a good candidate for this procedure.

## Risks

Risks for this surgery are:

    * Blood clots in the legs that may travel to the lungs
    * Blood clots that form in the device and can travel to other parts of the body
    * Breathing problems
    * Heart attack or stroke
    * Allergic reactions to the anesthesia medicines used during surgery
    * Infections 

## Before the Procedure

Most people will already be in the hospital for treatment of their heart
failure.

## After the Procedure

Most people who are put on a VAD spend from a few to several days in the
intensive care unit (ICU) after surgery. You may stay in the hospital from 2
to 8 weeks after you have had the pump placed. During this time you will learn
how to care for the pump.

Less invasive VADs are not designed for ambulatory patients and those patients
need to stay in the ICU for the duration of their use. They are sometimes used
as a bridge to a surgical VAD or heart recovery.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

A VAD may help people who have heart failure live longer. It may also help
improve patients' quality of life.

## Alternative Names

VAD; RVAD; LVAD; BVAD; Right ventricular assist device; Left ventricular
assist device; Biventricular assist device; Heart pump; Left ventricular
assist system; LVAS; Implantable ventricular assist device; Heart failure -
VAD; Cardiomyopathy - VAD

## Patient Instructions

    * Angina - discharge
    * Heart attack - discharge
    * Heart failure - discharge
    * Surgical wound care - open

## Images

    * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle

## References

Aaronson KD, Pagani FD. Mechanical circulatory support. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 29.

Mcmurray JJV, Pfeffer MA. Heart failure: management and prognosis. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 59.

Peura JL, Colvin-Adams M, Francis GS, et al. Recommendations for the use of
mechanical circulatory support: device strategies and patient selection: a
scientific statement from the American Heart Association. _Circulation_.
2012;126(22):2648-2667. PMID: 23109468 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23109468.

Rihal CS, Naidu SS, Givetz MM, et al. 2015 SCAI/ACC/HFSA/STS clinical expert
consensus statement on the use of percutaneous mechanical circulatory support
devices in cardiovascular care: endorsed by the American Heart Association,
the Cardiological Society of India, and Sociedad Latino Americana de
Cardiologia Intervencion; affirmation of value by the Canadian Association of
Interventional Cardiology-Association Canadienne de Cardiologie
d'intervention. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2015;65(19):e7-e26. PMID: 25861963
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25861963.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heart Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartDiseases_thumb.jpg)Heart
Diseases _Read more_

![Heart Failure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartFailure_thumb.jpg)Heart
Failure _Read more_

![Heart
Transplantation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartTransplantation_thumb.jpg)Heart
Transplantation _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

