Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000775.htm    
                                Description: Heart disease often develops over time. You may have early signs or symptoms long before you have serious heart problems. Or, you may not realize you are developing heart disease. The warning signs of    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Warning signs and symptoms of heart disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000775.htm

# Warning signs and symptoms of heart disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Heart disease often develops over time. You may have early signs or symptoms
long before you have serious heart problems. Or, you may not realize you are
developing heart disease. The warning signs of heart disease may not be
obvious. Also, not every person has the same symptoms.

Certain symptoms, such as chest pain, ankle swelling, and shortness of breath
may be signals that something is wrong. Learning the warning signs can help
you get treatment and help prevent a heart attack or stroke.

## Chest Pain

Chest pain is discomfort or pain that you feel along the front of your body,
between your neck and upper abdomen. There are many causes of chest pain that
have nothing to do with your heart.

But chest pain is still the most common symptom of poor blood flow to the
heart or a heart attack. This type of chest pain is called angina.

Chest pain can occur when the heart is not getting enough blood or oxygen. The
amount and type of pain can vary from person to person. The intensity of the
pain does not always relate to how severe the problem is.

    * Some people may feel a crushing pain, while others feel only mild discomfort.
    * Your chest may feel heavy or like someone is squeezing your heart. You may also feel a sharp, burning pain in your chest.
    * You may feel the pain under your breastbone (sternum), or in your neck, arms, stomach, jaw, or upper back.
    * Chest pain from angina often occurs with activity or emotion, and goes away with rest or a medicine called nitroglycerin.
    * Bad indigestion can also cause chest pain.

Women, older adults, and people with diabetes may have little or no chest
pain. They are more likely to have symptoms other than chest pain, such as:

    * Fatigue
    * Shortness of breath
    * General weakness
    * Change in skin color or greyish pallor (episodes of change in skin color associated with weakness)

Other symptoms of a heart attack can include:

    * Extreme anxiety
    * Fainting or loss of consciousness
    * Lightheadedness or dizziness
    * Nausea or vomiting
    * Palpitations (feeling like your heart is beating too fast or irregularly)
    * Shortness of breath
    * Sweating, which may be very heavy

## Shortness of Breath

When the heart can't pump blood as well as it should, blood backs up in the
veins that go from the lungs to the heart. Fluid leaks into the lungs and
causes shortness of breath. This is a symptom of heart failure.

You may notice shortness of breath:

    * During activity
    * While you're resting
    * When you're lying flat on your back -- it may even wake you from sleep 

## Coughing or Wheezing

Coughing or wheezing that doesn't go away can be another sign that fluid is
building up in your lungs. You may also cough up mucus that is pink or bloody.

## Swelling in the Legs, Ankles, or Feet

Swelling (edema) in your lower legs is another sign of a heart problem. When
your heart doesn't work as well, blood flow slows and backs up in the veins in
your legs. This causes fluid to build up in your tissues.

You may also have swelling in your stomach or notice some weight gain.

## Narrowed Blood Vessels

Narrowing of the blood vessels that bring blood to other parts of the body may
mean you have a much higher risk for heart attack. It can occur when
cholesterol and other fatty material (plaque) build up on the walls of your
arteries.

Poor blood supply to the legs may lead to:

    * Pain, achiness, fatigue, burning, or discomfort in the muscles of your feet, calves, or thighs.
    * Symptoms that often appear during walking or exercise, and go away after several minutes of rest.
    * Numbness in your legs or feet when you are at rest. Your legs may also feel cool to the touch, and the skin may look pale.

A stroke occurs when blood flow to a part of the brain stops. A stroke is
sometimes called a "brain attack." Symptoms of stroke can include difficulty
moving the limbs on one side of your body, one side of the face drooping,
difficulty with speaking or understanding language.

## Fatigue

Tiredness can have many causes. Often it simply means that you need more rest.
But feeling run down can be a sign of a more serious problem. Fatigue may be a
sign of heart trouble when:

    * You feel much more tired than normal. It's common for women to feel severely tired before or during a heart attack.
    * You feel so tired that you can't do your normal daily activities.
    * You have sudden, severe weakness. 

## Fast or Uneven Heartbeat (Palpitations)

If your heart can't pump blood as well, it may beat faster to try to keep up.
You may feel your heart racing or throbbing. A fast or uneven heartbeat can
also be the sign of an arrhythmia. This is a problem with your heart rate or
rhythm.

## When to Call the Doctor

If you have any signs of heart disease, call your health care provider right
away. Don't wait to see if the symptoms go away or dismiss them as nothing.

Call your local emergency number (such as 911) if:

    * You have chest pain or other symptoms of a heart attack
    * If you know you have angina and have chest pain that doesn't go away after 5 minutes of rest or after taking nitroglycerine 
    * If you think you may be having a heart attack
    * If you become extremely short of breath
    * If you think you may have lost consciousness

## Alternative Names

Angina - heart disease warning signs; Chest pain - heart disease warning
signs; Dyspnea - heart disease warning signs; Edema - heart disease warning
signs; Palpitations - heart disease warning signs

## References

Fihn SD, Blankenship JC, Alexander KP, et al. 2014 ACC/AHA/AATS/PCNA/SCAI/STS
focused update of the guideline for the diagnosis and management of patients
with stable ischemic heart disease: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines, and
the American Association for Thoracic Surgery, Preventive Cardiovascular
Nurses Association, Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions,
and Society of Thoracic Surgeons. _Circulation_. 2014;130(19):1749-1767. PMID:
25070666 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25070666.

Goff DC Jr, Lloyd-Jones DM, Bennett G, et al. 2013 ACC/AHA guideline on the
assessment of cardiovascular risk: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines.
_Circulation_. 2014;129(25 Suppl 2):S49-S73. PMID: 24222018
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24222018.

Gulati M, Bairey Merz CN. Cardiovascular disease in women. In: Zipes DP, Libby
P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 89.

Morrow DA, de Lemos JA. Stable ischemic heart disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 61.

## Review Date 9/24/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Heart Diseases

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

