Link: https://medlineplus.gov/pulmonaryembolism.html    
                                Description: A pulmonary embolism is a sudden blockage in a lung artery. The cause is usually a blood clot in the leg called deep vein thrombosis. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Pulmonary Embolism

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/pulmonaryembolism.html

#  Pulmonary Embolism

Also called: Blood clots in the lung

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Diagnosis and Tests
  * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

  * Living With
  * Related Issues

### See, Play and Learn

  * No links available

### Research

  * Statistics and Research
  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Reference Desk
  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is a pulmonary embolism (PE)?

A pulmonary embolism (PE) is a sudden blockage in a lung artery. It usually
happens when a when a blood clot breaks loose and travels through the
bloodstream to the lungs. PE is a serious condition that can cause

  * Permanent damage to the lungs
  * Low oxygen levels in your blood
  * Damage to other organs in your body from not getting enough oxygen

PE can be life-threatening, especially if a clot is large, or if there are
many clots.

### What causes a pulmonary embolism (PE)?

The cause is usually a blood clot in the leg called a deep vein thrombosis
that breaks loose and travels through the bloodstream to the lung.

### Who is at risk for a pulmonary embolism (PE)?

Anyone can get a pulmonary embolism (PE), but certain things can raise your
risk of PE:

  * **Having surgery,** especially joint replacement surgery
  * **Certain medical conditions,** including
    * Cancers
    * Heart diseases
    * Lung diseases
    * A broken hip or leg bone or other trauma
  * **Hormone-based medicines,** such as birth control pills or hormone replacement therapy
  * **Pregnancy and childbirth.** The risk is highest for about six weeks after childbirth.
  * **Not moving for long periods,** such as being on bed rest, having a cast, or taking a long plane flight 
  * **Age.** Your risk increases as you get older, especially after age 40. 
  * **Family history and genetics.** Certain genetic changes that can increase your risk of blood clots and PE. 
  * **Obesity**

### What are the symptoms of a pulmonary embolism (PE)?

Half the people who have pulmonary embolism have no symptoms. If you do have
symptoms, they can include shortness of breath, chest pain or coughing up
blood. Symptoms of a blood clot include warmth, swelling, pain, tenderness and
redness of the leg.

### How is a pulmonary embolism (PE) diagnosed?

It can be difficult to diagnose PE. To make a diagnosis, your health care
provider will

  * Take your medical history, including asking about your symptoms and risk factors for PE
  * Do a physical exam
  * Run some tests, including various imaging tests and possibly some blood tests

### What are the treatments for a pulmonary embolism (PE)?

If you have PE, you need medical treatment right away. The goal of treatment
is to break up clots and help keep other clots from forming. Treatment options
include medicines and procedures.

**Medicines**

  * **Anticoagulants,** or blood thinners, keep blood clots from getting larger and stop new clots from forming. You might get them as an injection, a pill, or through an I.V. (intravenous). They can cause bleeding, especially if you are taking other medicines that also thin your blood, such as aspirin.
  * **Thrombolytics** are medicines to dissolve blood clots. You may get them if you have large clots that cause severe symptoms or other serious complications. Thrombolytics can cause sudden bleeding, so they are used if your PE is serious and may be life-threatening.

**Procedures**

  * **Catheter-assisted thrombus removal** uses a flexible tube to reach a blood clot in your lung. Your health care provider can insert a tool in the tube to break up the clot or to deliver medicine through the tube. Usually you will get medicine to put you to sleep for this procedure.
  * **A vena cava filter** may be used in some people who cannot take blood thinners. Your health care provider inserts a filter inside a large vein called the vena cava. The filter catches blood clots before they travel to the lungs, which prevents pulmonary embolism. But the filter does not stop new blood clots from forming.

### Can pulmonary embolism (PE) be prevented?

Preventing new blood clots can prevent PE. Prevention may include

  * Continuing to take blood thinners. It's also important to get regular checkups with your provider, to make sure that the dosage of your medicines is working to prevent blood clots but not causing bleeding.
  * Heart-healthy lifestyle changes, such as heart-healthy eating, exercise, and, if you smoke, quitting smoking
Using compression stockings to prevent deep vein thrombosis (DVT)

  * Moving your legs when sitting for long periods of time (such as on long trips)
  * Moving around as soon as possible after surgery or being confined to a bed

NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Start Here

  * Venous Thromboembolism ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)
  * Venous Thromboembolism (Blood Clots) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Chest X-Ray ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute) Also in Spanish
  * CT Angiography (CTA) (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish
  * D-Dimer Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Lactate Dehydrogenase (LDH) Isoenzymes Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

  * Blood Thinners: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Catheter-Directed Thrombolysis (Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish

## Living With

  * Patient's Guide to Recovery After Deep Vein Thrombosis or Pulmonary Embolism (American Heart Association)

## Related Issues

  * Blood Clots and Travel: What You Need to Know (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
  * Heparin-Induced Thrombocytopenia (American Heart Association) \- PDF
  * Venous Thromboembolism and Marathon Athletes (American Heart Association) \- PDF

## Statistics and Research

  * Data and Statistics of DVT/PE (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Pulmonary Embolism ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Comparison of international societal guidelines for the diagnosis of suspected pulmonary...
  * Article: Approach to Abnormal Chest Computed Tomography Contrast Enhancement in the Hospitalized...
  * Article: Measurement of High-Sensitivity Cardiac Troponin in Pulmonary Embolism: Useful Test or...
  * Pulmonary Embolism -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

  * How the Lungs Work ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Find an Expert

  * National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Patient Handouts

  * Coughing up blood (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * D-dimer test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Pulmonary embolus (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Pulmonary Embolism](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PulmonaryEmbolism.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Chest x-ray
  * Coughing up blood
  * D-dimer test
  * Pulmonary embolus
  * Pulmonary ventilation/perfusion scan
  * Thoracic CT

## Related Health Topics

  * Blood Clots
  * Deep Vein Thrombosis
  * Vascular Diseases

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Pulmonary Embolism is the
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Pulmonary
Embolism_

## NIH MedlinePlus Magazine

  * Struggling to Breathe: A Battle with Deep Vein Thrombosis

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 20 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 14 October 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

