Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007459.htm    
                                Description: The body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heart and vascular services

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007459.htm

# Heart and vascular services

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The body's cardiovascular, or circulatory system, is made of the heart, blood,
and blood vessels (arteries and veins).

Heart and vascular services refers to the branch of medicine that focuses on
the cardiovascular system.

![Heartbeat](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200083t.gif)Watch this
video about:Heartbeat

## Information

The heart's main job is to pump oxygen-rich blood to the body after it pumps
oxygen-poor blood to the lungs. It normally does this 60 to 100 times a
minute, 24 hours a day.

The heart is made of four chambers:

    * The right atrium receives oxygen-poor blood from the body. That blood then flows into the right ventricle, which pumps it to the lungs.
    * The left atrium receives oxygen-rich blood from the lungs. From there, the blood flows into the left ventricle, which pumps blood out of the heart to the rest of the body. 

Together, the arteries and veins are referred to as the vascular system. In
general, arteries carry blood away from the heart and veins carry blood back
to the heart.

The cardiovascular system delivers oxygen, nutrients, hormones, and other
important substances to cells and organs in the body. It plays an important
role in helping the body meet the demands of activity, exercise, and stress.
It also helps maintain body temperature, among other things.

CARDIOVASCULAR MEDICINE

Cardiovascular medicine refers to the branch of health care that specializes
in the treatment of diseases or conditions dealing with the heart and vascular
systems.

Common disorders include:

    * Abdominal aortic aneurysm
    * Congenital heart defects
    * Coronary artery disease, including angina and heart attack
    * Heart failure
    * Heart valve problems
    * High blood pressure and high cholesterol
    * Irregular heart rhythms (arrhythmias)
    * Peripheral artery disease (PAD)
    * Stroke 

Physicians involved in the treatment of circulatory or vascular diseases
include:

    * Cardiologists: Doctors who have received extra training in the treatment of heart and vascular disorders
    * Vascular surgeons: Doctors who have received extra training in blood vessel surgery
    * Cardiac surgeons: Doctors who have received extra training in heart-related surgery
    * Primary care doctors 

Other health care providers who are involved in the treatment of circulatory
or vascular diseases include:

    * Nurse practitioners (NPs) or physician assistants (PAs), who focus on heart and vascular diseases
    * Nutritionists or dietitians
    * Nurses who receive special training in the management of patients with these disorders 

Imaging tests that may be done to diagnose, monitor or treat diseases of the
circulatory and vascular system include:

    * Cardiac CT
    * Cardiac MRI
    * Coronary angiography
    * CT angiography (CTA) and magnetic resonance angiography (MRA)
    * Echocardiogram
    * PET scan of the heart
    * Stress tests (many different types of stress tests exist)
    * Vascular ultrasound, such as carotid ultrasound
    * Venous ultrasound of the arms and legs 

SURGERIES AND INTERVENTIONS

Less invasive procedures may be done to diagnose, monitor or treat diseases of
the heart and vascular system.

In most of these types of procedures, a catheter is inserted through the skin
into a large blood vessel. In most cases, such procedures do not need general
anesthesia. Patients often do not need to stay in the hospital overnight. They
recover in 1 to 3 days and can most often return to their normal activities
within a week.

Such procedures include:

    * Ablation therapy to treat cardiac arrhythmias
    * Angiogram (using x-rays and injected contrast dye to evaluate blood vessels)
    * Angioplasty (using a small balloon to open a narrowing in a blood vessel) with or without stent placement
    * Cardiac catheterization (measuring pressures in and around the heart) 

Heart surgery may be needed to treat certain heart or blood vessel problems.
This may include:

    * Heart transplant
    * Insertion of pacemakers or defibrillators
    * Open and minimally invasive coronary artery bypass surgery
    * Repair or replacement of heart valves
    * Surgical treatment of congenital heart defects 

Vascular surgery refers to surgical procedures that are used to treat or
diagnose problems in a blood vessel, such as a blockage or rupture. Such
procedures include:

    * Arterial bypass grafts
    * Endarterectomies
    * Repair of aneurysms (dilated/enlarged portions) of the aorta and its branches 

Procedures may also be used to treat arteries that supply the brain, kidneys,
intestines, arms and legs.

CARDIOVASCULAR PREVENTION AND REHABILITATION

Cardiac rehabilitation is therapy used to prevent heart disease from getting
worse. It is usually recommended after major heart-related events such as a
heart attack or cardiac surgery. It may include:

    * Cardiovascular risk assessments
    * Health screenings and wellness exams
    * Nutrition and lifestyle counseling, including smoking cessation and diabetes education
    * Supervised exercise 

## Alternative Names

Circulatory system; Vascular system; Cardiovascular system

## References

Bope ET, Kellerman RD. The cardiovascular system. In: Bope ET, Kellerman RD,
eds. _Conn's Current Therapy 2017_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 3.

Grubb N, Spratt J, Bradbury A. The cardiovascular system. In: Douglas G, Nicol
F, Robertson C, eds. _Macleod's Clinical Examination_. 13th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2013:chap 6.

## Review Date 10/17/2017

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heart Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartDiseases_thumb.jpg)Heart
Diseases _Read more_

![Vascular
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VascularDiseases_thumb.jpg)Vascular
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

