Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000094.htm    
                                Description: Getting regular exercise when you have heart disease is important. Physical activity can strengthen your heart muscle and help you manage blood pressure and cholesterol levels.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Being active when you have heart disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000094.htm

# Being active when you have heart disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Getting regular exercise when you have heart disease is important. Physical
activity can strengthen your heart muscle and help you manage blood pressure
and cholesterol levels.

## Exercise and Your Heart

Getting regular exercise when you have heart disease is important.

Exercise can make your heart muscle stronger. It may also help you be more
active without chest pain or other symptoms.

Exercise may help lower your blood pressure and cholesterol. If you have
diabetes, it can help you control your blood sugar.

Regular exercise can help you lose weight. You will also feel better.

Exercise will also help keep your bones strong.

Always talk with your health care provider before starting an exercise
program. You need to make sure the exercise you would like to do is safe for
you. This is particularly important if:

    * You recently had a heart attack.
    * You have been having chest pain or pressure, or shortness of breath.
    * You have diabetes.
    * You recently had a heart procedure or heart surgery. 

## Types of Exercise you can do

Your provider will tell you what exercise is best for you. Talk with your
provider before you start a new exercise program. Also ask if it is OK before
you do a harder activity.

Aerobic activity uses your heart and lungs for a long period of time. It also
helps your heart use oxygen better and improves blood flow. You want to make
your heart work a little harder every time, but not too hard.

Start slowly. Choose an aerobic activity such as walking, swimming, light
jogging, or biking. Do this at least 3 to 4 times a week.

Always do 5 minutes of stretching or moving around to warm up your muscles and
heart before exercising. Allow time to cool down after you exercise. Do the
same activity but at a slower pace.

Take rest periods before you get too tired. If you feel tired or have any
heart symptoms, stop. Wear comfortable clothing for the exercise you are
doing.

During hot weather, exercise in the morning or evening. Be careful not to wear
too many layers of clothes. You can also go to an indoor shopping mall to
walk.

When it is cold, cover your nose and mouth when exercising outside. Go to an
indoor shopping mall if it is too cold or snowy to exercise outside. Ask your
provider if it is OK for you to exercise when it is below freezing.

Resistance weight training may improve your strength and help your muscles
work together better. This can make it easier to do daily activities. These
exercises are good for you. But keep in mind they do not help your heart like
aerobic exercise does.

Check out your weight-training routine with your provider first. Go easy, and
do not strain too hard. It is better to do lighter sets of exercise when you
have heart disease than to work out too hard.

You may need advice from a physical therapist or trainer. Either one can show
you how to do exercises the right way. Make sure you breathe steadily and
switch between upper and lower body work. Rest often.

You may be eligible for a formal cardiac rehabilitation program. Ask your
provider if you can have a referral.

## Pace Yourself and Know Your Limits

If exercise puts too much strain on your heart, you may have pain and other
symptoms, such as:

    * Dizziness or lightheadedness
    * Chest pain
    * Irregular heartbeat or pulse
    * Shortness of breath
    * Nausea

It is important that you pay attention to these warning signs. Stop what you
are doing. Rest.

Know how to treat your heart symptoms if they happen.

Always carry some nitroglycerin pills with you.

If you have symptoms, write down what you were doing and the time of day.
Share this with your provider. If these symptoms are very bad or do not go
away when you stop the activity, let your provider know right away. Your
provider can give you advice about exercise at your regular medical
appointments.

Know your resting pulse rate. Also know a safe exercising pulse rate. Try
taking your pulse during exercise. This way, you can see if your heart is
beating at a safe exercise rate. If it is too high, slow down. Then, take it
again after exercise to see if it comes back to normal within about 10
minutes.

You can take your pulse in the wrist area below the base of your thumb. Use
your index and third fingers of the opposite hand to locate your pulse and
count the number of beats per minute.

Drink plenty of water. Take frequent breaks during exercise or other strenuous
activities.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call if you feel:

    * Pain, pressure, tightness, or heaviness in the chest, arm, neck, or jaw
    * Shortness of breath
    * Gas pains or indigestion
    * Numbness in your arms
    * Sweaty, or if you lose color
    * Lightheaded 

Changes in your angina may mean your heart disease is getting worse. Call your
provider if your angina:

    * Becomes stronger
    * Occurs more often
    * Lasts longer
    * Occurs when you are not active or when you are resting
    * Does not get better when you take your medicine 

Also call if you cannot exercise as much as you are used to being able to.

## Alternative Names

Heart disease - activity; CAD - activity; Coronary artery disease - activity;
Angina - activity

## Images

    * ![Being active after a heart attack](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22939t.jpg)Being active after a heart attack

## References

Fihn SD, Blankenship JC, Alexander KP, et al. 2014 ACC/AHA/AATS/PCNA/SCAI/STS
focused update of the guideline for the diagnosis and management of patients
with stable ischemic heart disease: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines, and
the American Association for Thoracic Surgery, Preventive Cardiovascular
Nurses Association, Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions,
and Society of Thoracic Surgeons. _Circulation_. 2014;130:1749-1767. PMID:
25070666 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25070666.

Morrow DA, de Lemos JA. Stable ischemic heart disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 61.

Ridker PM, Libby P, Buring JE. Risk markers and primary prevention of coronary
heart disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF,
Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular
Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 45.

Thompson PD, Ades PA. Exercise-based, comprehensive cardiac rehabilitation.
In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 54.

## Read More

    * Angina
    * Heart bypass surgery
    * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive
    * Heart failure - overview
    * High blood cholesterol levels
    * Stroke

## Patient Instructions

    * ACE inhibitors
    * Angina - discharge
    * Angina - what to ask your doctor 
    * Angina - when you have chest pain
    * Angioplasty and stent - heart - discharge 
    * Antiplatelet drugs - P2Y12 inhibitors
    * Aspirin and heart disease
    * Butter, margarine, and cooking oils
    * Cardiac catheterization - discharge 
    * Cholesterol and lifestyle
    * Cholesterol - what to ask your doctor 
    * Controlling your high blood pressure
    * Dietary fats explained
    * Fast food tips
    * Heart attack - discharge
    * Heart bypass surgery - discharge
    * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive - discharge
    * Heart disease - risk factors
    * Heart failure - discharge
    * High blood pressure - what to ask your doctor 
    * How to read food labels
    * Mediterranean diet

## Review Date 7/25/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Heart Diseases
    * How to Lower Cholesterol

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

