Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000746.htm    
                                Description: A heart-healthy diet is low in saturated fat. It also limits foods with added salt and added sugar.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Simple, heart-smart substitutions

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000746.htm

# Simple, heart-smart substitutions

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A heart-healthy diet is low in saturated fat. It also limits foods with added
salt and added sugar.

Making heart-healthy food choices does not mean you have to sacrifice flavor.
The key is to include more fresh produce, whole grains, beans, lean meats,
fish, and low-fat dairy.

## 1\. Replace Saturated Fats

**Reduce the amount of fat in your dairy.** Whole-fat dairy products are high
in saturated fat. But there are healthier options.

    * Instead of butter, cook with olive, canola, corn, or safflower oils.
    * Replace heavy cream with evaporated skim milk.
    * Whole-milk cheese, yogurt, and milk with low-fat versions. 

Experiment. If a recipe calls for whole milk, you can usually replace most or
all of the volume with skim or low-fat milk with no reduction in final
quality.

Try meat substitutes with your meals.

    * Beans are great in soups, salads, and over rice.
    * Nuts liven up salads, stir-fried meals, and vegetables.
    * Eggs make great dinners, as omelets and frittatas.
    * Mushrooms add a meaty texture to sauces, casseroles, and stroganoffs.
    * Tofu goes well with curries and stir fried dishes.
    * Eat more fish, especially fish that are high in omega-3 fatty acids. This includes herring, sardines, salmon, tuna, trout, and mackerel. 

**Choose lean meats.** They have less fat and are better for your heart. When
selecting and cooking lean meats:

    * Remove the skin from chicken and turkey before serving.
    * Choose lean cuts of pork, such as tenderloin or loin chops.
    * Look for beef cuts labeled "choice" or "select."
    * Avoid marbled cuts of beef, or cuts marked "prime."
    * Cut off visible fat before cooking.
    * Instead of frying, bake, roast, broil, or stir fry meat.
    * If excess fat pools in the pan, pour it off before serving the meat. 

Prepare meat as just a part of the meal, rather than the main attraction. For
example, stir fry pork with broccoli and serve over brown rice. Along with the
meat, you get a serving of vegetable and whole grain.

## 2\. Prepare Foods with Little or no Salt

To cut back on salt, stock your kitchen with low- or no-salt prepared sauces,
soups, canned foods, or mixes. Instead of salt, season your food with:

    * Orange, lemon, or lime juice
    * Spices and herbs
    * Vinegar
    * Salt-free herb blends 

## 3\. Cook with Whole Grains

White flour, white rice, and other refined grains have been stripped of their
nutrients. You often find them in foods that are high in sugar, sodium, and
fat.

Whole grains are loaded with fiber and nutrition. They can help lower
cholesterol in your blood and make you feel full longer. As you shop for food,
read labels for fat and sugar content. Be on the look out for:

    * Whole grain breads, cereals, and crackers that list whole wheat as the first ingredient on their labels
    * Whole wheat flour instead of white flour
    * Brown or wild rice instead of white rice
    * Whole wheat barley
    * Oatmeal
    * Other grains such as quinoa, amaranth, buckwheat, and millet 

## 4\. Cut Back on Sugar

Too much sugar in your diet typically means many calories without many
nutrients. To keep your weight in check and your heart healthy, limit the
sugar you eat.

    * Cut sugar in recipes by one third or more. You often will not notice a difference.
    * In recipes, use unsweetened applesauce in equal amounts in place of sugar.
    * Use ginger, allspice, or cinnamon in oatmeal.
    * Limit consumption of sugar added beverages such as sweet teas, sports drinks, and sodas.

## Recipes

**Baked Salmon Dijon**

    * 1 cup (240 milliliters, mL) fat free sour cream
    * 2 teaspoons (tsp), or 10 mL, dried dill
    * 3 tablespoons (tbsp), or 45 mL, scallions, finely chopped
    * 2 tbsp (30 mL) Dijon mustard
    * 2 tbsp (30 mL) lemon juice
    * 1 Â½ lbs (680 g) salmon fillet with skin cut in center
    * Â½ tsp (2.5 mL) garlic powder
    * Â½ tsp (2.5 mL) black pepper
    * As needed, fat-free cooking spray 
    1. Whisk sour cream, dill, onion, mustard, and lemon juice in small bowl to blend.
    2. Place salmon, skin side down, on prepared sheet. Sprinkle with garlic powder and pepper. Spread with the sauce.
    3. Bake salmon until just opaque in center, about 20 minutes. 

_Source: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute._

 **Vegetarian Spaghetti Sauce**

    * 2 tbsp (30 mL) olive oil
    * 2 small onions, chopped
    * 3 cloves garlic, chopped
    * 1 Â¼ cups (300 mL) zucchini, sliced
    * 1 tbsp (15 mL) oregano, dried
    * 1 tbsp (15 mL) basil, dried
    * 8 oz (227 g) can of low-sodium tomato sauce
    * 6 oz (170 g) can of low-sodium tomato paste
    * 2 medium tomatoes, chopped
    * 1 cup (240 mL) water 
    1. In a medium skillet, heat oil. SautÃ© onions, garlic, and zucchini in oil for 5 minutes on medium heat.
    2. Add remaining ingredients and simmer covered for 45 minutes. Serve over whole grain pasta, cooked without salt. 

_Source: Your Guide to Lowering Your Blood Pressure with DASH, U.S. Health and
Human Services._

## Alternative Names

Coronary artery disease - heart smart substitutions; Atherosclerosis - heart
smart substitutions; Cholesterol - heart smart substitutions; Coronary heart
disease - heart smart substitutions; Healthy diet - heart smart substitutions;
Wellness - heart smart substitutions

## References

Eckel RH, Jakicic JM, Ard JD, et al. 2013 AHA/ACC guideline on lifestyle
management to reduce cardiovascular risk: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. _J Am
Coll Cardiol_. 2014;63(25 Pt B):2960-2984. PMID: 24239922
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24239922.

U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; U.S. Department of Agriculture.
2015 - 2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans. 8th Edition.
health.gov/dietaryguidelines/2015/resources/2015-2020_Dietary_Guidelines.pdf.
Updated December 2015. Accessed July 12, 2018.

U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Your guide to lowering your
blood pressure with DASH.
www.nhlbi.nih.gov/files/docs/public/heart/new_dash.pdf. Updated April 2006.
Accessed July 13, 2018.

## Review Date 4/23/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, The Brooklyn Hospital Center, Brooklyn, NY. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Heart Diseases
    * How to Lower Cholesterol with Diet
    * Nutrition

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

