Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000202.htm    
                                Description: Myocardial contusion is a bruise of the heart muscle.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Myocardial contusion

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000202.htm

# Myocardial contusion

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Myocardial contusion is a bruise of the heart muscle.

## Causes

The most common causes are:

    * Car crashes
    * Getting hit by a car
    * Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR)
    * Falling from a height, most often greater than 20 feet (6 meters)

## Symptoms

A severe myocardial contusion may lead to signs and symptoms of a heart
attack.

Symptoms can include:

    * Pain in the front of the ribs or breastbone 
    * Feeling that your heart is racing 
    * Lightheadedness
    * Nausea or vomiting
    * Shortness of breath
    * Weakness 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. This may show:

    * Bruise or scrapes on the chest wall
    * Crunching sensation when touching the skin if there are rib fractures and puncture of the lung
    * Fast heartbeat
    * Irregular heartbeat
    * Low blood pressure
    * Rapid or shallow breathing
    * Tenderness to the touch
    * Abnormal chest wall movement from rib fractures 

Tests may include:

    * Blood tests (cardiac enzymes, such as Troponin-I or T or CKMB)
    * Chest x-ray
    * CT scan of the chest
    * Electrocardiogram (ECG or EKG)
    * Echocardiogram

These tests may show:

    * Problems with the heart wall and the ability for the heart to contract
    * Fluid or blood in the thin sac surrounding the heart (pericardium)
    * Rib fractures, lung or blood vessel injury
    * Problem with the heart's electrical signaling (such as a bundle branch block or other heart block)
    * Fast heartbeat starting at the sinus node of the heart (sinus tachycardia)
    * Abnormal heartbeat starting in the ventricles or lower chambers of the heart (ventricular dysrhythmia) 

## Treatment

In most cases, you will be closely monitored for at least 24 hours. An
electrocardiogram (ECG) will be done continually to check your heart function.

Emergency room treatment may include:

    * Catheter placement through a vein (IV)
    * Medicines to relieve pain, heart rate disturbances, or low blood pressure
    * Pacemaker (temporary, may be permanent later)
    * Oxygen 

Other therapies may be used to treat a heart injury, include:

    * Chest tube placement
    * Draining blood from around the heart
    * Surgery to repair blood vessels in the chest 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People with a mild myocardial contusion will recover completely most of the
time.

Serious heart injuries can increase your risk for heart failure or heart
rhythm problems.

## Prevention

The following safety tips may help prevent a heart bruise:

    * Wear a seat belt when driving.
    * Choose a car with air bags.
    * Take steps to ensure safety when working at heights. 

## Alternative Names

Blunt myocardial injury

## Images

    * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
    * ![Heart - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1097t.jpg)Heart - front view

## References

Boccalandro F, Von Schoettler H. Traumatic heart disease. In: Levine GN, ed.
_Cardiology Secrets_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 71.

Raja AS. Thoracic trauma. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 38.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![CPR](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CPR_thumb.jpg)CPR _Read more_

![Heart Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartDiseases_thumb.jpg)Heart
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

