Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000540.htm    
                                Description: If you have had angina, heart surgery, or a heart attack, you may:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heart disease and intimacy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000540.htm

# Heart disease and intimacy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If you have had angina, heart surgery, or a heart attack, you may:

    * Wonder if and when you can have sex again
    * Have different feelings about having sex or being intimate with your partner 

Almost everyone with heart problems has these questions and concerns. The most
helpful thing you can do is talk to your health care providers, spouse,
partner, or friends.

## When is it Safe?

Both you and your provider may be concerned that having sex will bring on a
heart attack. Your provider can tell you when it is safe to have sex again.

After a heart attack or heart procedure:

    * You may have an exercise test, to see how your heart reacts to exercise.
    * Sometimes, at least the first 2 weeks or so after a heart attack, your provider may advise avoiding sex.

Make sure you know the symptoms that could mean your heart is working too
hard. They include:

    * Chest pain or pressure
    * Feeling lightheaded, dizzy, or faint
    * Nausea
    * Trouble breathing
    * Uneven or fast pulse 

If you have any of these symptoms during the day, avoid sex and talk to your
provider. If you notice these symptoms during (or soon after) having sex, stop
the activity. Call your provider to discuss your symptoms.

## Can you be Intimate?

After heart surgery or a heart attack, your provider may say it is safe to
have sex again.

But your health issues may change the way you feel about or experience sex and
close contact with your partner. Besides being worried about having a heart
attack during sex, you may feel:

    * Less interested in having sex or being close with your partner
    * Like sex is less enjoyable
    * Sad or depressed
    * Feel worried or stressed
    * Like you are a different person now 

Women may have trouble feeling aroused. Men may have trouble getting or
keeping an erection, or have other problems.

Your partner may have the same feelings you are having and may be afraid to
have sex with you.

## Talk to Your Doctor

If you have any questions or concerns about intimacy, talk to your provider.
Your provider can help you find out what is causing the problem and suggest
ways to deal with it.

    * It may not be easy to talk about such private things, but there may be a treatment that could help you.
    * If you find it hard to talk to your heart doctor about these topics, talk to your primary care provider.

If you are depressed, anxious, or afraid, medicine or talk therapy may help.
Classes in lifestyle change, stress management, or therapy may help you,
family members, and partners.

If the problem is caused by side effects of medicine you are taking, that
medicine may be adjusted, changed, or another medicine may be added.

Men who have trouble getting or keeping an erection may be prescribed a
medicine to treat this. These include medicines like sildenafil (Viagra),
vardenafil (Levitra), and tadalafil (Cialis).

    * The above medicines may not be safe if you are taking other medicine. DO NOT take them if you are taking nitroglycerin or nitrates. Taking both kinds of these medicines can lead to a life-threatening drop in blood pressure.
    * DO NOT buy these medicines through the mail or another doctor who does not know your full health history. To get the right prescription, talk to the doctor who knows your health history and all the medicines you take.

## When to Call the Doctor

If you have new symptoms of heart trouble during sexual activity, stop the
activity. Call your provider for advice. If the symptoms do not go away within
5 to 10 minutes, call 911.

## References

Levine GN, Steinke EE, Bakaeen FG, et al. Sexual activity and cardiovascular
disease: a scientific statement from the American Heart Association.
_Circulation_. 2012;125(8):1058-1072. PMID: 22267844
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22267844.

Morrow DA, de Lemos JA. Stable ischemic heart disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 61.

Scott KM, Temme KE. Sexual dysfunction and disability. In: Cifu DX, ed.
_Braddom's Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 22.

Steinke EE, Jaarsma T, Barnason SA, Byrne M, et al. Sexual counselling for
individuals with cardiovascular disease and their partners: a consensus
document from the American Heart Association and the ESC Council on
Cardiovascular Nursing and Allied Professions (CCNAP). _Eur Heart J_.
2013;34(41):3217-3235. PMID: 23900695 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23900695.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Heart Attack
    * Heart Diseases
    * Sexual Health

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

