Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000759.htm    
                                Description: Cardiovascular disease is the broad term for problems with the heart and blood vessels. These problems are often due to atherosclerosis. This condition occurs when fat and cholesterol build up in blood    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Understanding cardiovascular disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000759.htm

# Understanding cardiovascular disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cardiovascular disease is the broad term for problems with the heart and blood
vessels. These problems are often due to atherosclerosis. This condition
occurs when fat and cholesterol build up in blood vessel (artery) walls. This
buildup is called plaque. Over time, plaque can narrow blood vessels and cause
problems throughout the body. If an artery becomes blocked, it can lead to
heart attack or stroke.

## Types of Cardiovascular Disease

**Coronary heart disease (CHD)** is the most common type of heart disease, is
when plaque builds up in the arteries leading to the heart. CHD is also called
coronary artery disease (CAD). When arteries narrow, the heart cannot get
enough blood and oxygen. A blocked artery can cause a heart attack. Over time,
CHD can weaken the heart muscle and cause heart failure or arrhythmias.

 **Heart failure** occurs when the heart muscle becomes stiff or weak. It
cannot pump out enough oxygen-rich blood, which causes symptoms throughout the
body. The condition may affect only the right side or only the left side of
the heart. More often, both sides of the heart are involved. High blood
pressure and CAD are common causes of heart failure.

 **Arrhythmias** are problems with heart rate (pulse) or heart rhythm. This
happens when the heart's electrical system doesn't work properly. The heart
may beat too fast, too slow, or unevenly. Certain heart problems, such as
heart attack or heart failure can cause problems with the heart's electrical
system. Some people are born with an arrhythmia.

 **Heart valve diseases** occur when one of the four valves in the heart does
not work properly. Blood can leak through the valve in the wrong direction
(called regurgitation), or a valve may not open far enough and block blood
flow (called stenosis). An unusual heartbeat, called a heart murmur, is the
most common symptom. Certain heart problems, such as heart attack, heart
disease, or infection, can cause heart valve diseases. Some people are born
with heart valve problems.

 **Peripheral artery disease** occurs when the arteries to your legs and feet
become narrow due to a buildup of plaque. Narrow arteries reduce or block
blood flow. When blood and oxygen can't get to the legs, it can injure nerves
and tissue.

 **High blood pressure (hypertension)** is a cardiovascular disease that can
lead to other problems, such as heart attack, heart failure, and stroke.

 **Stroke** is caused by a lack of blood flow to the brain. This can happen
because of a blood clot traveling to the blood vessels in the brain, or
bleeding in the brain. Stoke has many of the same risk factors as heart
disease.

 **Congenital heart disease** is a problem with the heart's structure and
function that is present at birth. Congenital heart disease can describe a
number of different problems affecting the heart. It is the most common type
of birth defect.

## References

Goldman L. Approach to the patient with possible cardiovascular disease. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 51.

Newby DE, Grubb NR, Bradbury A. Cardiovascular disease. In: Walker BR,
Colledge NR, Ralston SH, Perman ID, eds. _Davidson's Principles and Practice
of Medicine_. 22nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone;
2014:chap 18.

Toth PP, Shammas NW, Foreman B, Byrd JB, Brook RD. Cardiovascular disease. In:
Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 27.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Heart Diseases

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

