Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000193.htm    
                                Description: Cardiac amyloidosis is a disorder caused by deposits of an abnormal protein (amyloid) in the heart tissue. These deposits make it hard for the heart to work properly.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cardiac amyloidosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000193.htm

# Cardiac amyloidosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cardiac amyloidosis is a disorder caused by deposits of an abnormal protein
(amyloid) in the heart tissue. These deposits make it hard for the heart to
work properly.

## Causes

Amyloidosis is a group of diseases in which clumps of proteins called amyloids
build up in body tissues. Over time, these proteins replace normal tissue,
leading to failure of the involved organ. There are many forms of amyloidosis.

Cardiac amyloidosis ("stiff heart syndrome") occurs when amyloid deposits take
the place of normal heart muscle. It is the most typical type of restrictive
cardiomyopathy. Cardiac amyloidosis may affect the way electrical signals move
through the heart (conduction system). This can lead to abnormal heartbeats
(arrhythmias) and faulty heart signals (heart block).

The condition can be inherited. This is called familial cardiac amyloidosis.
It can also develop as the result of another disease such as a type of bone
and blood cancer, or as the result of another medical problem causing
inflammation.Â Cardiac amyloidosis is more common in men than in women. The
disease is rare in people under age 40.

## Symptoms

Some people may have no symptoms. When present, symptoms may include:

    * Excessive urination at night 
    * Fatigue, reduced exercise ability
    * Palpitations (sensation of feeling heartbeat)
    * Shortness of breath with activity
    * Swelling of the abdomen, legs, ankles, or other part of the body
    * Trouble breathing while lying down 

## Exams and Tests

The signs of cardiac amyloidosis can be related to a number of different
conditions. This can make the problem hard to diagnose.

Signs may include:

    * Abnormal sounds in the lung (lung crackles) or a heart murmur
    * Blood pressure that is low or drops when you stand up
    * Enlarged neck veins
    * Swollen liver 

The following tests may be done:

    * Chest or abdomen CT scan (considered the "gold standard" to help diagnose this condition)
    * Coronary angiography
    * Electrocardiogram (ECG)
    * Echocardiogram
    * Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
    * Nuclear heart scans (MUGA, RNV)
    * Positron emission tomography (PET) 

An ECG may show problems with the heartbeat or heart signals. It may also show
low signals (called "low voltage").

A cardiac biopsy is used to confirm the diagnosis. A biopsy of another area,
such as the abdomen, kidney, or bone marrow, is often done as well.

![Biopsy catheter](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/8904.jpg)

## Treatment

Your health care provider may tell you to make changes to your diet, including
limiting salt and fluids.

You may need to take water pills (diuretics) to help your body get rid of
excess fluid. The provider may tell you to weigh yourself every day. A weight
gain of 3 or more pounds (1 kilogram or more) over 1 to 2 days can mean there
is too much fluid in the body.

Medicines including digoxin, calcium-channel blockers, and beta-blockers may
be used in people with atrial fibrillation. However, the drugs must be used
with caution, and the dosage must be carefully monitored. People with cardiac
amyloidosis may be extra sensitive to side effects of these drugs.

Other treatments may include:

    * Chemotherapy
    * Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (AICD)
    * Pacemaker, if there are problems with heart signals
    * Prednisone, an anti-inflammatory medicine

A heart transplant may be considered for people with some types of amyloidosis
who have very poor heart function. People with hereditary amyloidosis may need
a liver transplant.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In the past, cardiac amyloidosis was thought to be an untreatable and rapidly
fatal disease. However, the field is changing rapidly. Different types of
amyloidosis can affect the heart in different ways. Some types are more severe
than others. Many people can now expect to survive and experience a good
quality of life for several years after diagnosis.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Atrial fibrillation or ventricular arrhythmias
    * Congestive heart failure
    * Fluid buildup in the abdomen (ascites)
    * Increased sensitivity to digoxin 
    * Low blood pressure and dizziness from excessive urination (due to medicine) 
    * Sick sinus syndrome
    * Symptomatic cardiac conduction system disease (arrhythmias related to abnormal conduction of impulses through the heart muscle)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have this disorder and develop new symptoms such as:

    * Dizziness when you change position
    * Excessive weight (fluid) gain
    * Excessive weight loss
    * Fainting spells
    * Severe breathing problems 

## Alternative Names

Amyloidosis - cardiac; Primary cardiac amyloidosis - AL type; Secondary
cardiac amyloidosis - AA type; Stiff heart syndrome; Senile amyloidosis

## Images

    * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
    * ![Dilated cardiomyopathy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18136t.jpg)Dilated cardiomyopathy
    * ![Biopsy catheter](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8904t.jpg)Biopsy catheter

## References

Falk RH and Hershberger RE. The dilated, restrictive, and infiltrative
cardiomyopathies. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF,
Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular
Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 77.

McKenna WJ, Elliott P. Diseases of the myocardium and endocardium. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 60.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Amyloidosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Amyloidosis_thumb.jpg)Amyloidosis
_Read more_

![Heart Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartDiseases_thumb.jpg)Heart
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

