Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003077.htm    
                                Description: A bounding pulse is a strong throbbing felt over one of the arteries in the body. It is due to a forceful heartbeat.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pulse - bounding

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003077.htm

# Pulse - bounding

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A bounding pulse is a strong throbbing felt over one of the arteries in the
body. It is due to a forceful heartbeat.

## Causes

A bounding pulse and rapid heart rate both occur in the following conditions
or events:

    * Abnormal or rapid heart rhythms
    * Anemia
    * Anxiety
    * Long-term (chronic) kidney disease
    * Heart failure
    * Heart valve problem called aortic regurgitation
    * Heavy exercise
    * Fever
    * Pregnancy, because of increased fluid and blood in the body
    * Overactive thyroid (hyperthyroidism)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if the intensity or rate of your pulse
increases suddenly and does not go away. This is very important when:

    * You have other symptoms along with increased pulse.
    * The change in your pulse does not go away when you rest for a few minutes.
    * You already have been diagnosed with a heart problem. 
![Taking your carotid
pulse](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19386.jpg)

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will do a physical exam that includes checking your temperature,
pulse, rate of breathing, and blood pressure. Your heart and circulation will
also be checked.

Your provider will ask questions such as:

    * Is this the first time you have felt a bounding pulse?
    * Did it develop suddenly or gradually? Is it always present, or does it come and go?
    * Does it only happen along with other symptoms, such as palpitations? What other symptoms do you have?
    * Does it get better if you rest?
    * Are you pregnant?
    * Have you had a fever?
    * Have you been very anxious or stressed?
    * Do you have other heart problems, such as heart valve disease, high blood pressure, or congestive heart failure?
    * Do you have kidney failure?

The following diagnostic tests may be performed:

    * Blood studies (CBC or blood count)
    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG (electrocardiogram)
    * Echocardiogram

## Alternative Names

Bounding pulse

## Images

    * ![Taking your carotid pulse](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19386t.jpg)Taking your carotid pulse

## References

Fang JC, O'Gara PT. The history and physical examination: an evidence-based
approach. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 10.

Goldman L. Approach to the patient with possible cardiovascular disease. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 51.

## Review Date 5/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heart Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartDiseases_thumb.jpg)Heart
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

