Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003868.htm    
                                Description: An electrocardiogram (ECG) is a test that records the electrical activity of the heart.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Electrocardiogram

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003868.htm

# Electrocardiogram

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An electrocardiogram (ECG) is a test that records the electrical activity of
the heart.

## How the Test is Performed

You will be asked to lie down. The health care provider will clean several
areas on your arms, legs, and chest, and then will attach small patches called
electrodes to those areas. It may be necessary to shave or clip some hair so
the patches stick to the skin. The number of patches used may vary.

The patches are connected by wires to a machine that turns the heart's
electrical signals into wavy lines, which are often printed on paper. The
doctor reviews the test results.

You will need to remain still during the procedure. The provider may also ask
you to hold your breath for a few seconds as the test is being done.

It is important to be relaxed and warm during an ECG recording because any
movement, including shivering, can alter the results.

Sometimes this test is done while you are exercising or under light stress to
look for changes in the heart. This type of ECG is often called a stress test.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Make sure your provider knows about all the medicines you are taking. Some
drugs can interfere with test results.

DO NOT exercise or drink cold water immediately before an ECG because these
actions may cause false results.

## How the Test will Feel

An ECG is painless. No electricity is sent through the body. The electrodes
may feel cold when first applied. In rare cases, some people may develop a
rash or irritation where the patches were placed.

## Why the Test is Performed

An ECG is used to measure:

    * Any damage to the heart
    * How fast your heart is beating and whether it is beating normally
    * The effects of drugs or devices used to control the heart (such as a pacemaker)
    * The size and position of your heart chambers 

An ECG is often the first test done to determine whether a person has heart
disease. Your provider may order this test if:

    * You have chest pain or palpitations
    * You are scheduled for surgery
    * You have had heart problems in the past
    * You have a strong history of heart disease in the family 

## Normal Results

Normal test results most often include:

    * Heart rate: 60 to 100 beats per minute
    * Heart rhythm: Consistent and even 

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal ECG results may be a sign of:

    * Damage or changes to the heart muscle
    * Changes in the amount of the electrolytes (such as potassium and calcium) in the blood
    * Congenital heart defect
    * Enlargement of the heart
    * Fluid or swelling in the sac around the heart
    * Inflammation of the heart (myocarditis)
    * Past or current heart attack
    * Poor blood supply to the heart arteries
    * Abnormal heart rhythms (arrhythmias) 

Some heart problems that can lead to changes on an ECG test include:

    * Atrial fibrillation/flutter
    * Heart attack
    * Heart failure
    * Multifocal atrial tachycardia
    * Paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia
    * Sick sinus syndrome
    * Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome

## Risks

There are no risks.

## Considerations

The accuracy of the ECG depends on the condition being tested. A heart problem
may not always show up on the ECG. Some heart conditions never produce any
specific ECG changes.

## Alternative Names

ECG; EKG

## Images

    * ![ECG](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1135t.jpg)ECG
    * ![Atrioventricular block - ECG tracing](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1429t.jpg)Atrioventricular block - ECG tracing
    * ![High blood pressure tests](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19232t.jpg)High blood pressure tests
    * ![Electrocardiogram \(ECG\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8772t.jpg)Electrocardiogram (ECG)
    * ![ECG electrode placement](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/21772t.jpg)ECG electrode placement

## References

Brady WJ, Harrigan RA, Chan TC. Basic electrocardiographic techniques. In:
Roberts JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical
Procedures in Emergency Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 14.

Ganz L. Electrocardiography. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 54.

Mirvis DM, Goldberger AL. Electrocardiography. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow
RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A
Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 12.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Angina](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Angina_thumb.jpg)Angina _Read more_

![Arrhythmia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Arrhythmia_thumb.jpg)Arrhythmia
_Read more_

![Atrial
Fibrillation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AtrialFib_thumb.jpg)Atrial
Fibrillation _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

