Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003356.htm    
                                Description: C-reactive protein (CRP) is produced by the liver. The level of CRP rises when there is inflammation throughout the body. It is one of a group of proteins called acute phase reactants that go up in response    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

C-reactive protein

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003356.htm

# C-reactive protein

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

C-reactive protein (CRP) is produced by the liver. The level of CRP rises when
there is inflammation throughout the body. It is one of a group of proteins
called acute phase reactants that go up in response to inflammation. The
levels of acute phase reactants increase in response to certain inflammatory
proteins called cytokines. These proteins are produced by white blood cells
during inflammation.

This article discusses the blood test done to measure the amount of CRP in
your blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed. This is most often taken from a vein. The procedure
is called a venipuncture.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special steps are needed to prepare for this test.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others may feel only a prick or stinging sensation. Afterward, there may be
some throbbing.

## Why the Test is Performed

The CRP test is a general test to check for inflammation in the body. It is
not a specific test. That means it can reveal that you have inflammation
somewhere in your body, but it cannot pinpoint the exact location. The CRP
test is often done with the ESR or sedimentation rate test which also looks
for inflammation.

You may have this test to:

    * Check for flare-ups of inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, or vasculitis.
    * Determine if anti-inflammatory medicine is working to treat a disease or condition.

However, a low CRP level does not always mean that there is no inflammation
present. Levels of CRP may not be increased in people with rheumatoid
arthritis and lupus. The reason for this is unknown.

A more sensitive CRP test, called a high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-
CRP) assay, is available to determine a person's risk for heart disease.

## Normal Results

Normal CRP values vary from lab to lab. Generally, there are low levels of CRP
detectable in the blood. The levels often increase slightly with age, female
gender and in African Americans.

Increased serum CRP is related to traditional cardiovascular risk factors and
may reflect the role of these risk factors in causing vascular inflammation.

According to the American Heart Association, results of the hs-CRP in
determining the risk for heart disease can be interpreted as follows:

    * You are at low risk of developing cardiovascular disease if your hs-CRP level is lower than 1.0 mg/L.
    * You are at average risk of developing cardiovascular disease if your levels are between 1.0 mg/L and 3.0 mg/L.
    * You are at high risk for cardiovascular disease if your hs-CRP level is higher than 3.0 mg/L. 

Note: Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk
to your health care provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

The examples above show the common measurements for results for these tests.
Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A positive test means you have inflammation in the body. This may be due to a
variety of conditions, including:

    * Cancer
    * Connective tissue disease
    * Heart attack
    * Infection
    * Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)
    * Lupus
    * Pneumonia
    * Rheumatoid arthritis
    * Rheumatic fever
    * Tuberculosis

This list is not all inclusive.

Note: Positive CRP results also occur during the last half of pregnancy or
with the use of birth control pills (oral contraceptives).

## Risks

Risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

CRP; High-sensitivity C-reactive protein; hs-CRP

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. C. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory
Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders;
2013:266-432.

Dietzen DJ. Amino acids, peptides, and proteins. In: Rifai N, ed. _Tietz
Textbook of Clinical Chemistry and Molecular Diagnostics_. 6th ed. St Louis,
MO: Elsevier; 2018:chap 28.

Ridker PM, Libby P, Buring JE. Risk markers and the primary prevention of
cardiovascular disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli
GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular
Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 45.

## Review Date 1/10/2019

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, MACR, ABIM Board Certified in
Rheumatology, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Arthritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ArthritisII_thumb.jpg)Arthritis
_Read more_

![Autoimmune
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AutoimmuneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Autoimmune
Diseases _Read more_

![Heart Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartDiseases_thumb.jpg)Heart
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

