Link: https://medlineplus.gov/breastreconstruction.html    
                                Description: Breast reconstruction can rebuild the shape of the breast after a mastectomy for breast cancer. Read about the types of implants and how it is done.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Breast Reconstruction

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/breastreconstruction.html

#  Breast Reconstruction

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here

### Learn More

  * Related Issues
  * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

  * Images

### Research

  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

If you need a mastectomy, you have a choice about whether or not to have
surgery to rebuild the shape of the breast. Instead of breast reconstruction,
you could choose to wear a breast form that replaces the breast, wear padding
inside your bra, or do nothing. All of these options have pros and cons. What
is right for one woman may not be right for another.

Breast reconstruction may be done at the same time as the mastectomy, or it
may be done later on. If radiation therapy is part of the treatment plan, your
doctor may suggest waiting until after radiation therapy.

If you're thinking about breast reconstruction, talk to a plastic surgeon
before the mastectomy, even if you plan to have your reconstruction later on.

A surgeon can reconstruct the breast in many ways. Some women choose to have
breast implants, which are filled with saline or silicone gel. Another method
uses tissue taken from another part of your body. The plastic surgeon can take
skin, muscle, and fat from your lower abdomen, back, or buttocks.

The type of reconstruction that is best for you depends on your age, body
type, and the type of cancer surgery that you had. A plastic surgeon can help
you decide.

NIH: National Cancer Institute

## Start Here

  * Breast Reconstruction (Susan G. Komen for the Cure)
  * Breast Reconstruction after Mastectomy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

  * Breast Reconstruction Alternatives (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
  * Breast Reconstruction and Prosthesis (Susan G. Komen for the Cure) \- PDF
  * Choosing a Breast Reconstruction Surgeon and Questions to Ask (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
  * Risks of Breast Implants (Food and Drug Administration)
  * Types of Breast Implants (Food and Drug Administration)

## Specifics

  * Breast Implants: Saline vs. Silicone (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Breast Reconstruction Options (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
  * Breast Reconstruction with Flap Surgery (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Breast Reconstruction with Implants (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
  * Preparing for Breast Reconstruction Surgery (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
  * Should I Have Breast Reconstruction? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
  * What to Expect After Breast Reconstruction Surgery (American Cancer Society)

## Images

  * Breast reconstruction - slideshow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Breast Implants ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Mammaplasty ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Four Techniques to Avoid Implant Puncture While Fat Grafting.
  * Article: Acellular Dermal Matrix, the Breast, and the FDA.
  * Article: Recent Advances in Implant-Based Breast Reconstruction.
  * Breast Reconstruction -- see more articles
  * Breast implants -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

  * American Cancer Society
  * National Cancer Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

  * Breast reconstruction - implants (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Breast reconstruction - natural tissue (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Breast
Reconstruction](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BreastReconstruction2.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Breast reconstruction - implants
  * Breast reconstruction - natural tissue
  * Breast reconstruction - slideshow
  * Mastectomy and breast reconstruction - what to ask your doctor

## Related Health Topics

  * Breast Cancer
  * Breast Diseases
  * Plastic and Cosmetic Surgery

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Breast
Reconstruction_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 9 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 21 June 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

