Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003870.htm    
                                Description: Swan-Ganz catheterization is the passing of a thin tube (catheter) into the right side of the heart and the arteries leading to the lungs. It is done to monitor the heart    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Swan-Ganz - right heart catheterization

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003870.htm

# Swan-Ganz - right heart catheterization

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Swan-Ganz catheterization is the passing of a thin tube (catheter) into the
right side of the heart and the arteries leading to the lungs. It is done to
monitor the heart's function and blood flow and pressures in and around the
heart. This test is most often done in people who are very ill.

![Swan Ganz
catheterization](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18087.jpg)

## How the Test is Performed

The test can be done while you are in bed in an intensive care unit (ICU) of a
hospital. It can also be done in special procedure areas such as a cardiac
catheterization laboratory.

Before the test starts, you may be given medicine (sedative) to help you
relax.

You will lie on a padded table. Your doctor will make a small surgical cut
into a vein near the groin or in your arm, or neck. A flexible tube (catheter
or sheath) is placed through the cut into a vein. Sometimes, it will be placed
in your leg or your arm. You will be awake during the procedure.

A longer catheter is inserted. It is then carefully moved into the upper
chamber of the right side of the heart. X-ray images may be used to help the
health care provider see where the catheter should be placed.

Blood may be removed from the catheter. This blood is tested to measure the
amount of oxygen in the blood.

During the procedure, your heart's rhythm will be constantly watched using an
electrocardiogram (ECG).

## How to Prepare for the Test

You should not eat or drink anything for 8 hours before the test starts. You
may need to stay in the hospital the night before the test. Otherwise, you
will check in to the hospital the morning of the test.

You will wear a hospital gown. You must sign a consent form before the test.
Your provider will explain the procedure and its risks.

## How the Test will Feel

You may be given medicine to help you relax before the procedure. You will be
awake and able to follow instructions during the test.

You may feel some discomfort when the IV is placed into your arm. You may also
feel some pressure at the site when the catheter is inserted. In people who
are critically ill, the catheter may stay in place for several days.

You may feel discomfort when the area of the vein is numbed with anesthetic.

## Why the Test is Performed

The procedure is done to evaluate how the blood moves (circulates) in people
who have:

    * Abnormal pressures in the heart arteries
    * Burns
    * Congenital heart disease
    * Heart failure
    * Kidney disease
    * Leaky heart valves
    * Lung problems
    * Shock (very low blood pressure) 

It may also be done to monitor for complications of a heart attack. It also
shows how well certain heart medicines are working.

Swan-Ganz catheterization can also be used to detect abnormal blood flow
between two areas of the heart that are not normally connected.

Conditions that can also be diagnosed or evaluated with Swan-Ganz
catheterization include:

    * Cardiac tamponade
    * Congenital heart disease
    * Pulmonary hypertension
    * Restrictive or dilated cardiomyopathy

## Normal Results

Normal results for this test are:

    * Cardiac index is 2.8 to 4.2 liters per minute per square meter (of body surface area)
    * Pulmonary artery systolic pressure is 17 to 32 millimeters of mercury (mm Hg)
    * Pulmonary artery mean pressure is 9 to 19 mm Hg
    * Pulmonary diastolic pressure is 4 to 13 mm Hg
    * Pulmonary capillary wedge pressure is 4 to 12 mm Hg
    * Right atrial pressure is 0 to 7 mm Hg

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

    * Blood flow problems, such as heart failure or shock
    * Heart valve disease
    * Lung disease
    * Structural problems with the heart, such as a shunt from an atrial or ventricular septal defect

## Risks

Risks of the procedure include:

    * Bruising around the area where the catheter was inserted
    * Injury to the vein
    * Puncture to the lung if the neck or chest veins are used, causing lung collapse (pneumothorax)

Very rare complications include:

    * Cardiac arrhythmias requiring treatment 
    * Cardiac tamponade
    * Embolism caused by blood clots at the tip of the catheter
    * Infection
    * Low blood pressure

## Alternative Names

Right heart catheterization; Catheterization - right heart

## Images

    * ![Swan Ganz catheterization](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18087t.jpg)Swan Ganz catheterization

## References

Hermann J. Cardiac catheterization. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL,
Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of
Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 19.

Kern M. Catheterization and angiography. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 57.

Sturgess DJ. Haemodynamic monitoring. In: Bersten AD, Soni N, eds. _Oh's
Intensive Care Manual_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2014:chap 16.

## Review Date 7/25/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Critical
Care](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CriticalCare_thumb.jpg)Critical Care
_Read more_

![Heart Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartDiseases_thumb.jpg)Heart
Diseases _Read more_

![Lung Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lung
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

