Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007273.htm    
                                Description: An atrial myxoma is a noncancerous tumor in the upper left or right side of the heart. It most often grows on the wall that separates the two sides of the heart. This wall is called the atrial septum.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Atrial myxoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007273.htm

# Atrial myxoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An atrial myxoma is a noncancerous tumor in the upper left or right side of
the heart. It most often grows on the wall that separates the two sides of the
heart. This wall is called the atrial septum.

## Causes

A myxoma is a primary heart (cardiac) tumor. This means that the tumor started
within the heart. Most heart tumors start somewhere else.

Primary cardiac tumors are rare. Myxomas are the most common type of these
rare tumors. About 75% of myxomas occur in the left atrium of the heart. They
most often begin in the wall that divides the two upper chambers of the heart.
The rest are in the right atrium. Right atrial myxomas are sometimes linked
with tricuspid stenosis and atrial fibrillation.

![Left atrial
myxoma](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18078.jpg)![Right atrial
myxoma](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18079.jpg)

Myxomas are more common in women. About 1 in 10 myxomas are passed down
through families (inherited). These tumors are called familial myxomas. They
tend to occur in more than one part of the heart at a time, and often cause
symptoms at a younger age.

## Symptoms

Many myxomas will not cause symptoms. These are often discovered when an
imaging study (echocardiogram, MRI, CT) is done for another reason.

Symptoms may occur at any time, but often they go along with a change in body
position.

Symptoms of a myxoma may include:

    * Breathing difficulty when lying flat or on one side or the other
    * Breathing difficulty when asleep
    * Chest pain or tightness
    * Dizziness
    * Fainting
    * Sensation of feeling your heart beat (palpitations)
    * Shortness of breath with activity 

The symptoms and signs of left atrial myxomas often mimic mitral stenosis
(narrowing of the valve between the left atrium and the left ventricle). Right
atrial myxomas rarely produce symptoms until they have grown to be quite large
(5 inches wide, or 13 cm).

Other symptoms may include:

    * Blueness of skin, especially on the fingers (Raynaud phenomenon)
    * Cough
    * Curvature of nails accompanied by soft tissue swelling (clubbing) of the fingers
    * Fever
    * Fingers that change color upon pressure or with cold or stress
    * General discomfort (malaise)
    * Joint pain
    * Swelling in any part of the body
    * Weight loss without trying 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and listen to your heart
through a stethoscope. Abnormal heart sounds or a murmur may be heard. These
sounds may change when you change body position.

Imaging tests may include:

    * Chest x-ray
    * CT scan of chest
    * ECG
    * Echocardiogram
    * Doppler study
    * Heart MRI
    * Left heart angiography
    * Right heart angiography

You may also need blood tests including:

    * Complete blood count (CBC) - may show anemia and increased white blood cells
    * Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) - may be increased 

## Treatment

Surgery is needed to remove the tumor, especially if it is causing heart
failure symptoms or an embolism. Some people will also need the mitral valve
replaced. This can be done during the same surgery.

Myxomas may come especially back if surgery does not remove all of the tumor
cells.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

A myxoma is not cancer, but complications are common.

Untreated, a myxoma can lead to an embolism (tumor cells or a clot that breaks
off and travels in the bloodstream). This can lead to a blockage of blood flow
or even cause the tumor to grow in another part of the body. Pieces of the
tumor can move to the brain, eye, or limbs.

If the tumor grows inside the heart, it can block blood flow. This may require
emergency surgery to prevent sudden death.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Arrhythmias
    * Pulmonary edema
    * Peripheral emboli
    * Spread (metastasis) of the tumor
    * Blockage of the mitral heart valve 

## Alternative Names

Cardiac tumor - myxoma; Heart tumor - myxoma

## Images

    * ![Left atrial myxoma](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18078t.jpg)Left atrial myxoma
    * ![Right atrial myxoma](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18079t.jpg)Right atrial myxoma

## References

Lenihan DJ, Yusuf SW, Shah A. Tumors affecting the cardiovascular system. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 95.

Mckenna WJ, Elliott P. Diseases of the myocardium and endocardium. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 60.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Benign Tumors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BenignTumors_thumb.jpg)Benign
Tumors _Read more_

![Heart Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartDiseases_thumb.jpg)Heart
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

