Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000092.htm    
                                Description: Current guidelines recommend that people with coronary artery disease (CAD) receive antiplatelet therapy with either aspirin or clopidogrel.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Aspirin and heart disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000092.htm

# Aspirin and heart disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Current guidelines recommend that people with coronary artery disease (CAD)
receive antiplatelet therapy with either aspirin or clopidogrel.

Aspirin therapy is very helpful for people with CAD or a history of stroke. If
you have been diagnosed with CAD, your health care provider may recommend that
you take a daily dose (from 75 to 162 mg) of aspirin. A daily dose of 81 mg is
recommended for people who have had PCI (angioplasty). It is most often
prescribed along with another antiplatelet medicine. Aspirin can reduce the
risk for heart attack and ischemic stroke. However, using aspirin over the
long-term can raise your risk for stomach bleeding.

Daily aspirin should not be used for prevention in healthy people who are at
low risk for heart disease. You provider will consider your overall medical
condition and risk factors for heart attack before recommending aspirin
therapy.

## How Aspirin Helps you

Taking aspirin helps prevent blood clots from forming in your arteries and may
help lower your risk for a stroke or heart attack.

Your provider may recommend to take daily aspirin if:

    * You do not have a history of heart disease or stroke, but you are at high risk for a heart attack or stroke.
    * You have been diagnosed with heart disease or stroke already. 

Aspirin helps get more blood flowing to your legs. It can treat a heart attack
and prevent blood clots when you have an abnormal heartbeat. You probably will
take aspirin after you have treatment for clogged arteries.

![Developmental process of
atherosclerosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18020.jpg)

You will most likely take aspirin as a pill. A daily low-dose aspirin (75 to
81 mg) is most often the first choice for preventing heart disease or stroke.

Talk to your provider before taking aspirin every day. Your provider may
change your dose from time to time.

## Side Effects

Aspirin can have side effects such as:

    * Diarrhea
    * Itching
    * Nausea
    * Skin rash
    * Stomach pain

Before you start taking aspirin, tell your provider if you have bleeding
problems or stomach ulcers. Also say if you are pregnant or breastfeeding.

## Taking Aspirin

Take your aspirin with food and water. This can reduce side effects. You may
need to stop taking this medicine before surgery or dental work. Always talk
to your provider before you stop taking this medicine. If you have had a heart
attack or a stent placed, be sure to ask your heart doctor if it is OK to stop
taking aspirin.

You may need medicine for other health problems. Ask your provider if this is
safe.

If you miss a dose of your aspirin, take it as soon as possible. If it is time
for your next dose, take your usual amount. DO NOT take extra pills.

Store your medicines in a cool, dry place. Keep them away from children.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have side effects.

Side effects can be any signs of unusual bleeding:

    * Blood in the urine or stools
    * Nosebleeds
    * Unusual bruising
    * Heavy bleeding from cuts
    * Black tarry stools
    * Coughing up blood
    * Unusually heavy menstrual bleeding or unexpected vaginal bleeding
    * Vomit that looks like coffee grounds 

Other side effects can be dizziness or difficulty swallowing.

Call your provider if you have wheezing, breathing difficulty, or tightness or
pain in your chest.

Side effects include swelling in your face or hands. Call your provider if you
have itching, hives, or tingling in your face or hands, very bad stomach pain,
or a skin rash.

## Alternative Names

Blood thinners - aspirin; Antiplatelet therapy - aspirin

## Images

    * ![Developmental process of atherosclerosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18020t.jpg)Developmental process of atherosclerosis

## References

Amsterdam EA, Wenger NK, Brindis RG, et al. 2014 AHA/ACC guideline for the
management of patients with non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndromes: a
report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task
Force on practice guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2014;64(24):e139-e228.
PMID: 25260718 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25260718.

Bohula EA, Morrow DA. ST-elevation myocardial infarction: management. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 59.

Fihn SD, Blankenship JC, Alexander KP, et al. 2014 ACC/AHA/AATS/PCNA/SCAI/STS
focused update of the guideline for the diagnosis and management of patients
with stable ischemic heart disease. _Circulation_. 2014;130(19):1749-1767.
PMID: 25070666 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25070666.

Giugliano RP, Braunwald E. Non-ST elevation acute coronary syndromes. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 60.

Mauri L, Bhatt DL. Percutaneous coronary intervention. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 62.

Morrow DA, de Lemos JA. Stable ischemic heart disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 61.

O'Gara PT, Kushner FG, Ascheim DD, et al. 2013 ACCF/AHA guideline for the
management of ST-elevation myocardial infarction: executive summary: a report
of the American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association
Task Force on practice guidelines. _Circulation_. 2013;127(4):529-555. PMID:
23247303 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23247303.

Ridker PM, Libby P, Buring JE. Risk markers and primary prevention of coronary
heart disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF,
Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular
Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2019:chap 45.

## Read More

    * Angina
    * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery
    * Angioplasty and stent placement - peripheral arteries
    * Aortic valve surgery - minimally invasive
    * Aortic valve surgery - open
    * Atherosclerosis
    * Cardiac ablation procedures 
    * Carotid artery surgery
    * Coronary heart disease
    * Heart bypass surgery
    * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive
    * Heart pacemaker
    * High blood cholesterol levels
    * High blood pressure - adults
    * Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator
    * Mitral valve surgery - minimally invasive
    * Mitral valve surgery - open
    * Peripheral artery bypass - leg

## Patient Instructions

    * ACE inhibitors
    * Angina - discharge
    * Angina - what to ask your doctor 
    * Angina - when you have chest pain
    * Angioplasty and stent - heart - discharge 
    * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery - discharge 
    * Angioplasty and stent placement - peripheral arteries - discharge 
    * Antiplatelet drugs - P2Y12 inhibitors
    * Atrial fibrillation - discharge 
    * Being active after your heart attack
    * Being active when you have heart disease
    * Butter, margarine, and cooking oils
    * Cardiac catheterization - discharge 
    * Carotid artery surgery - discharge
    * Cholesterol and lifestyle
    * Controlling your high blood pressure
    * Dietary fats explained
    * Fast food tips
    * Heart attack - discharge
    * Heart attack - what to ask your doctor
    * Heart bypass surgery - discharge
    * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive - discharge
    * Heart disease - risk factors
    * Heart failure - discharge
    * Heart failure - fluids and diuretics
    * Heart failure - home monitoring
    * Heart failure - what to ask your doctor 
    * Heart valve surgery - discharge 
    * How to read food labels
    * Mediterranean diet
    * Peripheral artery bypass - leg - discharge 
    * Stroke - discharge 

## Review Date 7/25/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Blood Thinners
    * Heart Diseases

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

