Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000106.htm    
                                Description: Coronary heart disease (CHD) is a narrowing of the small blood vessels that supply blood and oxygen to the heart. CHD is also called coronary artery disease. Risk factors are things that increase you chance    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heart disease - risk factors

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000106.htm

# Heart disease - risk factors

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Coronary heart disease (CHD) is a narrowing of the small blood vessels that
supply blood and oxygen to the heart. CHD is also called coronary artery
disease. Risk factors are things that increase you chance of getting a disease
or condition. This article discusses the risk factors for heart disease and
things you can do to lessen your risk.

## What is a Risk Factor?

A risk factor is something about you that increases your chance of getting a
disease or having a certain health condition. Some risk factors for heart
disease you cannot change, but some you can. Changing the risk factors that
you have control overÂ may help you live a longer, healthier life.

## Risk Factors you Cannot Change

Some of your heart disease risks that you CANNOT change are:

    * Your age. Risk of heart disease increases with age.
    * Your gender. Men have a higher risk of getting heart disease than women who are still menstruating. After menopause, the risk for women gets closer to the risk for men.
    * Your genes or race. If your parents had heart disease, you are at higher risk. African Americans, Mexican Americans, American Indians, Hawaiians, and some Asian Americans also have a higher risk for heart problems. 

## Risk Factors you can Change

Some of the risks for heart disease that you CAN change are:

    * Not smoking. If you do smoke, quit.
    * Controlling your cholesterol through diet, exercise, and medicines.
    * Controlling high blood pressure through diet, exercise, and medicines, if needed.
    * Controlling diabetes through diet, exercise, and medicines, if needed.
    * Exercising at least 30 minutes a day.
    * Keeping to a healthy weight by eating healthy foods, eating less, and joining a weight loss program, if you need to lose weight.
    * Learning healthy ways to cope with stress through special classes or programs, or things like meditation or yoga.
    * Limiting how much alcohol you drink to 1 drink a day for women and 2 a day for men. 

Good nutrition is important to your heart health and will help control some of
your risk factors.

    * Choose a diet rich in fruits, vegetables, and whole grains.
    * Choose lean proteins, such as chicken, fish, beans and legumes.
    * Choose low-fat dairy products, such as 1% milk and other low-fat items.
    * Avoid sodium (salt) and fats found in fried foods, processed foods, and baked goods.
    * Eat fewer animal products that contain cheese, cream, or eggs.
    * Read labels, and stay away from "saturated fat" and anything that contains "partially-hydrogenated" or "hydrogenated" fats. These products are usually loaded with unhealthy fats. 

Follow these guidelines and the advice of your health care provider to lower
your chances of developing heart disease.

## Alternative Names

Heart disease - prevention; CVD - risk factors; Cardiovascular disease - risk
factors; Coronary artery disease - risk factors; CAD - risk factors

## References

Eckel RH, Jakicic JM, Ard JD, et al. 2013 AHA/ACC Guidelines on lifestyle
management to reduce cardiovascular risk: A report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. _J Am
Coll Cardiol_. 2014;63(25 Pt B):2960-2984. PMID: 24239922
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24239922.

Genest J, Libby P. Lipoprotein disorders and cardiovascular disease. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 48.

Hansson GK, Hamsten A. Atherosclerosis, thrombosis, and vascular biology. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 70.

Ridker PM, Libby P, Buring JE. Risk markers and primary prevention of coronary
heart disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF,
Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular
Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 45.

## Read More

    * Angina
    * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery
    * Cardiac ablation procedures 
    * Coronary heart disease
    * Heart bypass surgery
    * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive
    * Heart failure - overview
    * Heart pacemaker
    * High blood cholesterol levels
    * High blood pressure - adults
    * Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator
    * Tips on how to quit smoking

## Patient Instructions

    * Angina - discharge
    * Aspirin and heart disease
    * Being active when you have heart disease
    * Butter, margarine, and cooking oils
    * Cholesterol and lifestyle
    * Cholesterol - drug treatment
    * Controlling your high blood pressure
    * Dietary fats explained
    * Fast food tips
    * Heart attack - discharge
    * How to read food labels
    * Low-salt diet 
    * Managing your blood sugar
    * Mediterranean diet

## Review Date 7/25/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Heart Diseases
    * How to Lower Cholesterol
    * How to Prevent Heart Disease

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

