

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate

# Treating the Most Disruptive Symptoms First and Preventing Worsening of
Symptoms

en EspaÃ±ol

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Post-exertional malaise (PEM)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Orthostatic Intolerance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Sleep Problems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Pain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Memory and Concentration Problems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Depression and Anxiety

Healthcare providers and patients need to establish which symptoms are most
disruptive or disabling and tailor management plans accordingly. Treatment
should be directed toward the most problematic symptoms as prioritized by the
patient. It is also important to incorporate strategies to prevent worsening
of symptoms into initial and subsequent treatment plans.

### Post-exertional malaise (PEM)

Post-exertional malaise (PEM) is the worsening of symptoms following even
minor physical or mental exertion, with symptoms typically worsening 12 to 48
hours after activity and lasting for days or even weeks. PEM can be mitigated
by activity management (pacing). The goal is to avoid PEM flare-ups and
illness relapses by balancing rest and activity.

Patients need to **determine their individual limits for mental and physical
activity,** and plan activity and rest to stay within these limits. Some
patients and healthcare providers refer to staying within these limits as
staying within the " **energy envelope. "** Limitations may be different for
each patient. Keeping individual activity and symptom diaries may be helpful
to patients in identifying their personal limitations, especially early on in
clinical care. Healthcare providers need to keep in mind that when patients
with ME/CFS exceed their individual capacities, PEM and serious deterioration
of function may result. In general, patients should not push themselves beyond
their capacities as this may exacerbate the symptoms and trigger PEM. When
patients experience improvement, activities can be cautiously increased with
monitoring for any negative effects. Patients need to be advised about "push
and crash" cycles: patients sometimes respond to having a "good day" by
subsequently doing too much to make up for "lost time," and then relapsing.

Any activity or exercise plan for people with ME/CFS needs to be carefully
designed based on individual presentation with input from each patient. If
possible, evaluation by a rehabilitation specialist may be beneficial. For
some patients, even daily chores and activities such as cleaning, preparing a
meal, or taking a shower can be difficult and may need to be broken down into
shorter, less strenuous pieces. While vigorous aerobic exercise can be
beneficial for many chronic illnesses, **patients with ME/CFS do not tolerate
such exercise routines**. Standard exercise recommendations for healthy people
can be harmful for patients with ME/CFS.

However, it is important that patients with ME/CFS maintain activities that
they can tolerate, since deconditioning is also harmful to patients. For some
patients, it might be first necessary to treat orthostatic intolerance and
improve patients' capacities to tolerate being upright before any activity can
be considered for careful implementation. Patients who are tolerating their
current level of activity and have learned to "listen to their bodies" might
benefit from carefully increasing exercise to improve their physical fitness
and avoid deconditioning. Some healthcare providers with expertise in ME/CFS
refer their patients to an exercise physiologist who understands ME/CFS and
uses an individualized and flexible approach to advancing activity levels. If
exercise plans are not designed and executed carefully, patients may
experience setbacks and serious deterioration in function and health.
Expectations need to be managed, as exercise cannot be expected to be a cure.
However, improved function is a long-term goal of managing ME/CFS; tolerance
of aerobic exercise and normal levels of activity is also a long-term goal
that can be related to improved function, but should be pursued cautiously as
described above.

For some pediatric patients with ME/CFS, activities of daily living,
education, and social engagement can result in PEM, while for other pediatric
patients with ME/CFS, such activities with careful planning might sometimes be
well-tolerated. Starting an exercise program for a patient who cannot tolerate
or barely tolerates routine activities can be counterproductive and even
harmful. However, for some patients with less debilitating symptoms, a
carefully managed exercise routine can help improve functionality and yield
enjoyment. It is important to ensure that exercise is not increased
prematurely, as excessive exertion might result in PEM. As for adults with
ME/CFS, achieving the optimal balance between activity and rest while
preventing PEM symptoms requires "trial and error."

A particularly important aspect of illness management for the pediatric
patient population is to help children continue their education and stay
connected with their friends. Healthcare providers can work with young
patients and their school administrators to create a study plan that will
accommodate the needs of individual patients. Healthcare providers can play
critical roles in ensuring that schools provide optimal support for students
with ME/CFS. This support needs to begin while children are being evaluated
for ME/CFS. Some children with extreme fatigue and cognitive dysfunction might
need accommodations such as part-time schooling or home tutoring. The
occasional patient might need to withdraw from school until symptoms have
improved enough to tolerate part-time class work. For additional helpful tips
on this process, see Pediatric ME/CFS Fact Sheet for Healthcare Professionals.

### Orthostatic Intolerance

Many patients with ME/CFS may also experience triggering or worsening of
symptom when moving to and/or maintaining an upright posture. This is known as
**orthostatic intolerance**. Symptoms of orthostatic intolerance can include
frequent dizziness and light-headedness, palpitations, and feeling faint.
Adolescents are particularly affected by this manifestation. As patients may
not recognize that they have orthostatic intolerance, it can be helpful to ask
additional questions to elicit this information:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * How do you feel when you have been standing still for more than 1-2 minutes?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What happens after you get up rapidly from sitting for a long time?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * How long can you stand before feeling ill? For example, 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Can you do the dishes?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Can you stand in a line for a bus or movie?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Are you able to grocery shop or be at the mall for more than a few minutes?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Can you take a hot shower or hot bath without feeling tired and lightheaded?

Direct measures of OI can be obtained with a relatively simple standing test,
such as the NASA lean test. A formal tilt table test may be considered. These
tests are not required for diagnosis, but will identify patients with an
abnormal response to standing; increased heart rate (also known as POTS or
postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome) and/or low or high blood pressure
(known as orthostatic hypo- or hypertension). Patients with symptoms of
orthostatic intolerance can benefit from evaluation by a cardiologist and/or
neurologist.

Strategies to address orthostatic problems include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Avoiding factors that aggravate symptoms (hot environments, prolonged standing, inadequate salt and fluid intake)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Increasing salt and fluid intake for those patients with ME/CFS who do not have hypertension, renal failure, congestive heart failure, or other contraindications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Postural counter-maneuvers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Compression and cooling garments

If symptoms do not improve with these non-pharmacological measures,
prescription medications for the management of postural orthostatic
tachycardia syndrome (POTS) and neurally mediated hypotension (NMH) as well as
prescription-strength support stockings can be helpful.

### Sleep Problems

Patients with ME/CFS have non-restorative sleep and wake up less refreshed
than they did before becoming ill. Common sleep complaints in patients with
ME/CFS include frequent awakening, intense and vivid dreaming, restless legs,
and nocturnal myoclonus (night-time muscular spasm), and awakening
unrefreshed.  Some also experience difficulty falling asleep and hypersomnia
(extreme sleepiness).

When patients follow good sleep hygiene techniques but are still waking
unrefreshed, sleep medication might be indicated. Initial medications to
consider are over-the-counter sleep products. If this does not improve sleep
quality, healthcare providers may prescribe medication for sleep starting at
the smallest dose and using for the shortest possible time.

**Unrefreshing sleep can be present even though medications may help patients
achieve required hours of sleep.** If possible, a sleep specialist may
evaluate patients whose sleep remains non-restorative following standard
interventions. It is very important for healthcare providers to get a careful
sleep history and recommend a sleep study, if indicated.

People with a primary sleep disorder such as sleep apnea or narcolepsy may
benefit from treatment but, if the person also has ME/CFS, not all ME/CFS
symptoms will go away with treatment of the sleep disorder.

A subset of patients with ME/CFS are affected so severely that many standard
recommendations regarding sleep such as those for sleep hygiene are not
sufficiently helpful or might have limited applicability.

### Pain

People with ME/CFS often experience deep pain in their muscles and joints.
Patients may also complain of headaches (typically pressure-like or migraine-
like) and sensitivity of their skin when touched.

Over-the-counter pain-relievers, like acetaminophen, aspirin, or ibuprofen,
can be considered first. If these do not provide enough pain relief,
evaluation by a pain specialist may be indicated. As for any patient with
chronic pain regardless of etiology, counseling for pain management techniques
is also advisable and can be helpful.

Other non-pharmacological pain management methods can also be beneficial to
some patients with ME/CFS, including stretching and movement therapies, manual
physical therapy, gentle massage, heat, toning exercises, and hydrotherapy.
While methods that involve physical activity such as stretching might be
helpful, initiating or resuming stretching and movement therapies requires
careful consideration to avoid post-exertional malaise. Acupuncture, when done
by a licensed practitioner, might help with pain for some patients.

### Memory and Concentration Problems

For some patients with ME/CFS, memory problems might be managed to some extent
by using memory aids such as organizers or portable notebooks to record
information, like to-do lists, appointments, and people's names. Electronic
devices such as smart phones and tablets can offer an additional bonus of
setting reminders for medications and appointments.

As with physical activity and exercise, patients should employ careful
planning and monitoring of cognitive activities throughout the day to avoid
mental overexertion (see also post-exertional malaise). **Planning periods of
rest after any anticipated mental activity is critical in avoiding
exacerbation of symptoms.** Some patients may need to avoid highly stimulating
activities based on their individual capacities.

Caution is warranted in prescribing stimulants for cognitive problems. Mild
stimulants may be helpful for some patients, but stronger stimulants can lead
to a relapse as patients may attempt to do too much when they feel better (the
so-called "push-crash cycle:" do too much, crash, rest, start to feel a little
better, do too much once again, and so on). Patients need to be followed
carefully to monitor for insomnia, weight loss, and other adverse effects.
Many stimulants can be habit-forming, and tolerance may develop if used daily.

### Depression and Anxiety

Patients with chronic illnesses sometimes develop psychiatric illness as a co-
morbid condition with their chronic illnesses, and some might have psychiatric
illness preceding, but not causative of, their chronic illnesses. As many as
half of patients with ME/CFS develop depression at some time during the course
of their illness. Brief psychiatric screening tools can be given and scored in
the primary care setting. When the results of such a tool or other assessment
suggest possible depression or other psychiatric diagnosis, that condition
should be managed. Referrals to mental health professionals may be warranted
either alone or in combination with medication.

Although treating these co-morbid conditions can be helpful, such treatment is
for the conditions and does not cure ME/CFS.

Some patients with ME/CFS who are clinically depressed may benefit from
antidepressants. However, healthcare providers should use caution in
prescribing these medications. Some drugs used to treat depression have other
effects that might worsen other ME/CFS symptoms and cause side effects,
particularly sedation and orthostatic hypotension. If prescribed, medication
for depression should be started at a low dose with careful monitoring for
side effects. As for all patients starting anti-depressants, improvement might
not occur for several weeks.

To reduce stress and anxiety without medication and promote a sense of well-
being, less severely affected patients with ME/CFS might benefit from trying
techniques like deep breathing and muscle relaxation, massage, and movement
therapies (such as stretching, yoga, and tai chi). While methods that involve
physical activity might be beneficial for some patients with ME/CFS,
initiating or resuming these or other movement therapies requires careful
consideration to avoid post-exertional malaise.

**Disclaimer:** The content of this ME/CFS website is for informational
purposes only and does not represent a federal guideline or recommendation for
the treatment of ME/CFS. The information provided on this website is not
intended to be a substitute for the medical judgment of the healthcare
provider and does not indicate an exclusive course of action or treatment.

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Clinical Care of Patients with ME/CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Additional Strategies for Living with ME/CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Monitoring the Use of All Medicines and Supplements
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Severely Affected Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Presentation and Clinical Course of ME/CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Diagnosis

Page last reviewed: November 19, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of High-
Consequence Pathogens and Pathology (DHCPP)

home ME/CFS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What is ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Possible Causes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Symptoms and Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * ME/CFS in Childrenplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Symptoms and Diagnosis of ME/CFS in Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment of ME/CFS in Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ME/CFS in Children Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fact Sheet for Healthcare Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fact Sheet for Parents/Guardians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fact Sheet for Education Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDCâs ME/CFS Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Diagnosis and Treatment of ME/CFS Syndrome: A Systematic Review of the Evidence
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Meetings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Multi-site Clinical Assessment of CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Wichita Clinical Study Data Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Living with ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Andrewâs Story 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Annâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Lizâs Story 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Marleneâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Information for Healthcare Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Presentation and Clinical Course of ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prognosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Etiology and Pathophysiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * IOM 2015 Diagnostic Criteria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Proposed Approach to ME/CFS Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Other Conditions for Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Comorbid Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Factors Complicating the Diagnosis of ME/CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Clinical Care of Patients with ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treating the Most Disruptive Symptoms First and Preventing Worsening of Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Additional Strategies for Living with ME/CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Monitoring the Use of All Medicines and Supplements
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Severely Affected Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Understanding History of Case Definitions and Criteria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Disability and ME-CFS

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health

