Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000755.htm    
                                Description: Parkinson disease results from certain brain cells dying. These cells help control movement and coordination. The disease leads to shaking (tremors) and trouble walking and moving.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Parkinson disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000755.htm

# Parkinson disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Parkinson disease results from certain brain cells dying. These cells help
control movement and coordination. The disease leads to shaking (tremors) and
trouble walking and moving.

## Causes

Nerve cells use a brain chemical called dopamine to help control muscle
movement. With Parkinson disease, the brain cells that make dopamine slowly
die. Without dopamine, the cells that control movement can't send proper
messages to the muscles. This makes it hard to control the muscles. Slowly,
over time, this damage gets worse. No one knows exactly why these brain cells
waste away.

Parkinson disease most often develops after age 50. It is one of the most
common nervous system problems in older adults.

    * The disease tends to affect men more than women, although women also develop the disease. Parkinson disease sometimes runs in families.
    * The disease can occur in younger adults. In such cases, it is often due to the person's genes.
    * Parkinson disease is rare in children. 

![Parkinson
disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200065t.gif)Watch this
video about:Parkinson disease

## Symptoms

Symptoms may be mild at first. For instance, you may have a mild tremor or a
slight feeling that one leg is stiff and dragging. Symptoms may affect one or
both sides of the body.

General symptoms may include:

    * Problems with balance and walking
    * Rigid or stiff muscles
    * Muscle aches and pains
    * Low blood pressure when you stand up
    * Stooped posture
    * Constipation
    * Sweating and not being able to control your body temperature
    * Slow blinking
    * Difficulty swallowing
    * Drooling
    * Slowed, quieter speech and monotone voice
    * No expression in your face (like you are wearing a mask) 

Movement problems may include:

    * Difficulty starting movement, such as starting to walk or getting out of a chair
    * Difficulty continuing to move
    * Slowed movements
    * Loss of fine hand movements (writing may become small and difficult to read)
    * Difficulty eating 

Symptoms of shaking (tremors):

    * Usually occur when your limbs are not moving. This is called resting tremor.
    * Occur when your arm or leg is held out.
    * Go away when you move.
    * May be worse when you are tired, excited, or stressed.
    * Can cause you to rub your finger and thumb together without meaning to (called pill-rolling tremor).
    * Eventually may occur in your head, lips, tongue, and feet.Â 

Other symptoms may include:

    * Anxiety, stress, and tension
    * Confusion
    * Dementia
    * Depression
    * Fainting
    * Memory loss 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider may be able to diagnose Parkinson disease based on
your symptoms and a physical exam. But the symptoms can be hard to pin down,
particularly in older adults. Symptoms are easier to recognize as the illness
gets worse.

The examination may show:

    * Difficulty starting or finishing a movement
    * Jerky, stiff movements
    * Muscle loss
    * Shaking (tremors)
    * Changes in your heart rate
    * Normal muscle reflexes

Your provider may do some tests to rule out other conditions that can cause
similar symptoms.

## Treatment

There is no cure for Parkinson disease, but treatment can help control your
symptoms.

MEDICINE

Your provider will prescribe medicines to help control your shaking and
movement symptoms.

At certain times during the day, the medicine may wear off and symptoms can
return. If this happens, your provider may need to change any of the
following:

    * Type of medicine
    * Dose
    * Amount of time between doses
    * The way you take the medicine 

You may also need to take medicines to help with:

    * Mood and thinking problems
    * Pain relief
    * Sleep problems
    * Drooling (botulinum toxin is often used) 

Parkinson medicines can cause severe side effects, including:

    * Confusion
    * Seeing or hearing things that are not there (hallucinations)
    * Nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea
    * Feeling lightheaded or fainting
    * Behaviors that are hard to control, such as gambling
    * Delirium

Tell your provider right away if you have these side effects. Never change or
stop taking any medicines without talking with your provider. Stopping some
medicines for Parkinson disease may lead to a severe reaction. Work with your
provider to find a treatment plan that works for you.

As the disease gets worse, symptoms such as stooped posture, frozen movements,
and speech problems may not respond to the medicines.

SURGERY

Surgery may be an option for some people. Surgery does not cure Parkinson
disease, but it may help ease symptoms. Types of surgery include:

    * Deep brain stimulation. This involves placing electric stimulators in areas of the brain that control movement.
    * Surgery to destroy brain tissue that causes Parkinson symptoms.
    * Stem cell transplant and other procedures are being studied. 

LIFESTYLE

Certain lifestyle changes may help you cope with Parkinson disease:

    * Stay healthy by eating nutritious foods and not smoking.
    * Make changes in what you eat or drink if you have swallowing problems.
    * Use speech therapy to help you adjust to changes in your swallowing and speech.
    * Stay active as much as possible when you feel good. DO NOT overdo it when your energy is low.
    * Rest as needed during the day and avoid stress.
    * Use physical therapy and occupational therapy to help you stay independent and reduce the risk of falls.
    * Place handrails throughout your house to help prevent falls. Place them in bathrooms and along stairways.
    * Use assistive devices, when needed, to make movement easier. These devices may include special eating utensils, wheelchairs, bed lifts, shower chairs, and walkers.
    * Talk to a social worker or other counseling service to help you and your family cope with the disorder. These services can also help you get outside help, such as Meals on Wheels. 

## Support Groups

Parkinson disease support groups can help you cope with the changes caused by
the disease.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Medicines can help most people with Parkinson disease. How well medicines
relieve symptoms and for how long, can be different in each person.

The disorder gets worse until a person is totally disabled, although in some
people, this can take decades. Parkinson disease may lead to a decline in
brain function and early death. Medicines may prolong function and
independence.

## Possible Complications

Parkinson disease may cause problems such as:

    * Difficulty performing daily activities
    * Difficulty swallowing or eating
    * Disability (differs from person to person)
    * Injuries from falls
    * Pneumonia from breathing in saliva or from choking on food
    * Side effects of medicines

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You have symptoms of Parkinson disease
    * Symptoms get worse
    * New symptoms occur

If you take medicines for Parkinson disease, tell your provider about any side
effects, which may include:

    * Changes in alertness, behavior, or mood
    * Delusional behavior
    * Dizziness
    * Hallucinations
    * Involuntary movements
    * Loss of mental functions
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Severe confusion or disorientation

Also call your provider if the condition gets worse and home care is no longer
possible.

## Alternative Names

Paralysis agitans; Shaking palsy

## Patient Instructions

    * Eating extra calories when sick - adults
    * Swallowing problems 

## Images

    * ![Substantia nigra and Parkinson disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19515t.jpg)Substantia nigra and Parkinson disease
    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Connolly BS, Lang AE. Pharmacological treatment of Parkinson disease: a
review. _JAMA_. 2014;311(16):1670-1683. PMID: 24756517
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24756517.

Fox SH, Katzenschlager R, Lim SY, et al; Movement Disorder Society Evidence-
Based Medicine Committee. International Parkinson and Movement Disorder
Society evidence-based medicine review: Update on treatments for the motor
symptoms of Parkinson's disease. _Mov Disord_. 2018;33(8):1248-1266. PMID:
29570866 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29570866.

Jankovic J. Parkinson disease and other movement disorders. In: Daroff RB,
Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical
Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 96.  

Odekerken VJ, Boel JA, Schmand BA, et al. GPi vs STN deep brain stimulation
for Parkinson disease: three-year follow-up. _Neurology_. 2016;86(8):755-761.
PMID: 26819458 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26819458.

Okun MS, Lang AE. Parkinsonism. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 381.

Radder DLM, Sturkenboom IH, van Nimwegen M, et al. Physical therapy and
occupational therapy in Parkinson's disease. _Int J Neurosci_.
2017;127(10):930-943. PMID: 28007002 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28007002.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Joseph V. Campellone, MD, Department of Neurology, Cooper Medical
School at Rowan University, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Internal review and update on 07/10/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Enfermedad de
Parkinson](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Parkinson'sDisease_thumb.jpg)Parkinson's
Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

