Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007453.htm    
                                Description: Deep brain stimulation (DBS) uses a device called a neurostimulator to deliver electrical signals to the areas of the brain that control movement, pain, mood, weight, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Deep brain stimulation

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007453.htm

# Deep brain stimulation

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Deep brain stimulation (DBS) uses a device called a neurostimulator to deliver
electrical signals to the areas of the brain that control movement, pain,
mood, weight, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and awakening from a coma.

## Description

The DBS system consist of four parts:

    * One or more, insulated wires called leads, or electrodes, that are placed into the brain
    * Anchors to fix the leads to the skull  

    * The neurostimulator, which puts out the electric current. The stimulator is similar to a heart pacemaker. It is usually placed under the skin near the collarbone, but may be placed elsewhere in the body
    * In some people another thin, insulated wire called an extension is added to connect the lead to the neurostimulator

Surgery is done to place each part of the neurostimulator system. In adults,
the whole system can be placed in 1 or 2 stages (2 separate surgeries).

Stage 1 is usually done under local anesthesia, meaning you are awake, but
pain-free. (In children, general anesthesia is given.)

    * Your head is placed in a special frame using small screws to keep it still during the procedure. Numbing medicine is applied where the screws contact the scalp. Sometimes, the procedure is done in the MRI machine and a frame is on top of your head rather than around your head.
    * A bit of hair is likely shaved.  

    * Numbing medicine is applied to your scalp at the site where the surgeon will open the skin and drill a small opening in the skull and places the lead into a specific area of the brain.
    * If both sides of your brain are being treated, the surgeon makes an opening on each side of the skull, and two leads are inserted.
    * Electrical impulses may need to be sent through the lead to make sure it is connected to the area of the brain responsible for your symptoms.
    * You may be asked questions, to read cards, or describe images. You may also be asked to move your legs or arms. These are to make sure the electrodes are in the right positions and the expected effect is achieved.  

Stage 2 is done under general anesthesia, meaning you are asleep and pain-
free. The timing of this stage of surgery depends on where in the brain the
stimulator will be placed.

    * The surgeon makes a small opening (incision), usually just below the collarbone and implants the neurostimulator. (Sometimes it is placed under the skin in the lower chest or belly area.)
    * The extension wire is tunneled under the skin of the head, neck, and shoulder and connected to the neurostimulator.
    * The incision is closed. The device and wires cannot be seen outside the body.

Once connected, electric pulses travel from the neurostimulator, along the
extension wire, to the lead, and into the brain. These tiny pulses interfere
with and block the electrical signals that cause symptoms of certain diseases.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

DBS is commonly done for people with Parkinson disease when the symptoms
cannot be controlled by medicines. DBS does not cure Parkinson disease, but
can help reduce symptoms such as:

    * Tremors
    * Rigidity
    * Stiffness
    * Slow movements
    * Walking problems

DBS may also be used to treat the following conditions:

    * Arm tremors related to multiple sclerosis
    * Major depression that does not respond well to medicines
    * Obsessive-compulsive disorder
    * Pain that does not go away (chronic pain)
    * Severe obesity
    * Shaking movement that cannot be controlled and the cause is unknown (essential tremor)
    * Tourette syndrome (in rare cases)
    * Uncontrolled or slow movement (dystonia)

## Risks

DBS is considered safe and effective when done in the right people.

Risks of DBS placement may include:

    * Allergic reaction to the DBS parts
    * Problem concentrating
    * Dizziness
    * Infection
    * Leakage of cerebrospinal fluid, which can lead to headache or meningitis
    * Loss of balance, reduced coordination, or slight loss of movement
    * Shock-like sensations
    * Speech or vision problems
    * Temporary pain or swelling at the site where the device was implanted
    * Temporary tingling in the face, arms, or legs

Problems may also occur if parts of the DBS system break or move. These
include:

    * Device, lead, or wires break, which can lead to another surgery to replace the broken part
    * Battery fails, which would cause the device to stop working properly (the battery normally lasts 3 to 5 years)
    * Wire that connects the stimulator to the lead in the brain breaks through the skin (may occur in very thin people)
    * The part of the device placed in the brain may break off or move to a different place in the brain (this is rare)

Possible risks of any brain surgery are:

    * Blood clot or bleeding in the brain
    * Brain swelling
    * Coma
    * Confusion, usually lasting only for days or weeks at most
    * Infection in the brain, in the wound, or in the skull
    * Problems with speech, memory, muscle weakness, balance, vision, coordination, and other functions, which may be short-term or permanent
    * Seizures
    * Stroke

Risks of general anesthesia are:

    * Reactions to medicines
    * Problems breathing

## Before the Procedure

You will have a complete physical exam.

Your doctor will order many laboratory and imaging tests, including a CT or
MRI scan. These imaging tests are done to help the surgeon pinpoint the exact
part of the brain responsible for the symptoms. The images are used to help
the surgeon place the lead in the brain during surgery.

You might have to see more than one specialist, such as a neurologist,
neurosurgeon, or psychologist, to make sure that the procedure is right for
you and has the best chance of success.

Before surgery, tell your surgeon:

    * If you could be pregnant
    * What medicines you are taking, including herbs, supplements, or vitamins you bought over-the-counter without a prescription
    * If you have been drinking a lot of alcohol

During the days before the surgery:

    * Your health care provider may tell you to temporarily stop taking blood thinners. These include warfarin (Coumadin), dabigatran (Pradaxa), rivaroxaban (Xarelto), apixaban (Eliquis), clopidogrel (Plavix), aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, and other NSAIDs.
    * If you are taking other medicines, ask your provider if it is OK to take them on the day of or in the days before surgery.
    * If you smoke, try to stop. Ask your provider for help.

The night before and on the day of surgery, follow instructions about:

    * Not drinking or eating anything for 8 to 12 hours before the surgery.
    * Washing your hair with special shampoo.
    * Take the medicines your provider told you to take with a small sip of water.
    * Arriving at the hospital on time.

## After the Procedure

You may need to stay in the hospital for about 3 days.

The doctor may prescribe antibiotics to prevent infection.

You will return to your doctor's office at a later date after surgery. During
this visit, the stimulator is turned on and the amount of stimulation is
adjusted. Surgery is not needed. This is process is also called programming.

Contact your doctor if you develop any of the following after DBS surgery:

    * Fever
    * Headache
    * Itching or hives
    * Muscle weakness
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Numbness or tingling on one side of the body
    * Pain
    * Redness, swelling, or irritation at any of the surgery sites
    * Trouble speaking
    * Vision problems

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People who have DBS usually do well during the surgery. Many people have great
improvement in their symptoms and quality of life. Most people still need to
take medicine, but at a lower dosage.

This surgery, and surgery in general, is riskier in people over age 70 and
those with health conditions such as high blood pressure and diseases that
affect blood vessels in the brain. You and your doctor should carefully weigh
the benefits of this surgery against the risks.

The DBS procedure can be reversed, if needed.

## Alternative Names

Globus pallidus deep brain stimulation; Subthalamic deep brain stimulation;
Thalamic deep brain stimulation; DBS; Brain neurostimulation

## References

Altinay M, Estemalik E, Malone DA Jr. A comprehensive review of the use of
deep brain stimulation (DBS) in treatment of psychiatric and headache
disorders. _Headache_. 2015;55(2):345-350. PMID: 25660121
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25660121.

Ashkan K, Rogers P, Bergman H, Ughratdar I. Insights into the mechanisms of
deep brain stimulation. _Nat Rev Neurol_. 2017;13(9):548-554. PMID: 28752857
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28752857.

Ho A L, Sussman ES, Zhang M, et al. Deep brain stimulation for obesity.
_Cureus_. 2015;7(3):e259. PMID: 26180683 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26180683.

Rundle-Gonzalez V, Peng-Chen Z, Kumar A, Okun MS. Deep brain stimulation. In:
Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 37.

Schrock LE, Mink JW, Woods DW, et al. Tourette syndrome deep brain
stimulation: a review and updated recommendations. _Mov Disord_.
2015;30(4):448-471. PMID: 25476818 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25476818.

## Review Date 10/6/2017

Updated by: Luc Jasmin, MD, PhD, FRCS (C), FACS, Department of Surgery at
Providence Medical Center, Medford, OR; Department of Surgery at Ashland
Community Hospital, Ashland, OR; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery at UCSF,
San Francisco, CA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Movement
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MovementDisorders_thumb.jpg)Movement
Disorders _Read more_

![Enfermedad de
Parkinson](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Parkinson'sDisease_thumb.jpg)Parkinson's
Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

