Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000759.htm    
                                Description: Secondary parkinsonism is when symptoms similar to Parkinson disease are caused by certain medicines, a different nervous system disorder, or another illness.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Secondary parkinsonism

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000759.htm

# Secondary parkinsonism

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Secondary parkinsonism is when symptoms similar to Parkinson disease are
caused by certain medicines, a different nervous system disorder, or another
illness.

Parkinsonism refers to any condition that involves the types of movement
problems seen in Parkinson disease. These problems include tremors, slow
movement, and stiffness of the arms and legs.

## Causes

Secondary parkinsonism may be caused by health problems, including:

    * Brain injury
    * Diffuse Lewy body disease (a type of dementia)
    * Encephalitis
    * HIV/AIDS
    * Meningitis
    * Multiple system atrophy
    * Progressive supranuclear palsy
    * Stroke
    * Wilson disease

Other causes of secondary parkinsonism include:

    * Brain damage caused by anesthesia drugs (such as during surgery)
    * Carbon monoxide poisoning
    * Certain medicines used to treat mental disorders or nausea
    * Mercury poisoning and other chemical poisonings
    * Overdoses of narcotics
    * MPTP (a contaminant in some street drugs) 

There have been rare cases of secondary parkinsonism among IV drug users who
injected a substance called MPTP, which can be produced when making a form of
heroin.

## Symptoms

Common symptoms include:

    * Decrease in facial expressions
    * Difficulty starting and controlling movement
    * Loss or weakness of movement (paralysis)
    * Soft voice
    * Stiffness of the trunk, arms, or legs
    * Tremor

Confusion and memory loss may be likely in secondary parkinsonism. This is
because many diseases that cause secondary parkinsonism also lead to dementia.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions about
the person's medical history and symptoms. Be aware that the symptoms may be
hard to assess, particularly in older adults.

Examination may show:

    * Difficulty starting or stopping voluntary movements
    * Tense muscles
    * Problems with posture
    * Slow, shuffling walk
    * Tremors (shaking) 

Reflexes are usually normal.

Tests may be ordered to confirm or rule out other problems that can cause
similar symptoms.

## Treatment

If the condition is caused by a medicine, the provider may recommend changing
or stopping the medicine.

Treating underlying conditions, such as stroke or infections, can reduce
symptoms or prevent the condition from getting worse.

If symptoms make it hard to do everyday activities, the provider may recommend
medicine. Medicines used to treat this condition can cause severe side
effects. It is important to see the provider for check-ups. Secondary
parkinsonism tends to be less responsive to medical therapy than Parkinson
disease.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Unlike Parkinson disease, some types of secondary parkinsonism may stabilize
or even improve if the underlying cause is treated. Some brain problems, such
as Lewy body disease, are not reversible.

## Possible Complications

This condition may lead to these problems:

    * Difficulty doing daily activities
    * Difficulty swallowing (eating)
    * Disability (varying degrees)
    * Injuries from falls
    * Side effects of medicines used to treat the condition 

Side effects from loss of strength (debilitation):

    * Breathing food, fluid, or mucus into the lungs (aspiration)
    * Blood clot in a deep vein (deep vein thrombosis)
    * Malnutrition

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call the provider if:

    * Symptoms of secondary parkinsonism develop, come back, or get worse
    * New symptoms appear, including confusion and movements that cannot be controlled
    * You are unable to care for the person at home after treatment starts 

## Prevention

Treating conditions that cause secondary parkinsonism may decrease the risk.

People taking medicines that can cause secondary parkinsonism should be
carefully monitored by the provider to prevent the condition from developing.

## Alternative Names

Parkinsonism - secondary; Atypical Parkinson disease

## Images

    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Jankovic J. Parkinson disease and other movement disorders. In: Daroff RB,
Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical
Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 96.

Okun MS, Lang AE. Parkinsonism. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 381.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Joseph V. Campellone, MD, Department of Neurology, Cooper Medical
School at Rowan University, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Internal review and update on 07/10/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Degenerative Nerve
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DegenerativeNerveDiseases_thumb.jpg)Degenerative
Nerve Diseases _Read more_

![Enfermedad de
Parkinson](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Parkinson'sDisease_thumb.jpg)Parkinson's
Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

