Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000065.htm    
                                Description: Difficulty with swallowing is the feeling that food or liquid is stuck in the throat or at any point before the food enters the stomach. This problem is also called dysphagia.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Swallowing problems

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000065.htm

# Swallowing problems

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Difficulty with swallowing is the feeling that food or liquid is stuck in the
throat or at any point before the food enters the stomach. This problem is
also called dysphagia.

This may be caused by a brain or nerve disorder, stress or anxiety, or
problems that involve the esophagus, the tube leading from your throat to your
stomach.

## What to Expect at Home

Symptoms of swallowing problems include:

    * Coughing or choking, either during or after eating
    * Gurgling sounds from the throat, during or after eating
    * Throat clearing after drinking or swallowing
    * Slow chewing or eating
    * Coughing food back up after eating
    * Hiccups after swallowing
    * Chest discomfort during or after swallowing
    * Unexplained weight loss 

Symptoms may be mild or severe.

## Home Care

Most people with dysphagia should be checked by a health care provider if the
symptoms persist or come back. But these general tips may help.

    * Keep mealtime relaxed.
    * Sit up as straight as possible when you eat.
    * Take small bites, less than 1 teaspoon (5 mL) of food per bite.
    * Chew well and swallow your food before taking another bite.
    * If one side of your face or mouth is weaker, chew food on the stronger side of your mouth.
    * DO NOT mix solid foods with liquids in the same bite.
    * DO NOT try to wash down solids with sips of liquids, unless your speech or swallowing therapist says this is OK.
    * DO NOT talk and swallow at the same time.
    * Sit upright for 30 to 45 minutes after eating.
    * DO NOT drink thin liquids without checking with your doctor or therapist first.

You may need someone to remind you to finish swallowing. It may also help to
ask caregivers and family members not to talk to you when you are eating or
drinking.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * You cough or have fever or shortness of breath
    * You are losing weight
    * Your swallowing problems are getting worse

## Alternative Names

Dysphagia - self-care

## Images

    * ![Swallowing problems](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22913t.jpg)Swallowing problems

## References

Brown DJ, Lefton-Greif MA, Ishman SL. Aspiration and swallowing disorders. In:
Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund VJ, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and
Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 209.

Matsuo K, Palmer JB. Dysphagia. In: Frontera, WR, Silver JK, Rizzo TD, eds.
_Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 129.

Pandolfino JE, Kahrilas PJ. Esophageal neuromuscular function and motility
disorders. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger &
Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 43.

## Read More

    * Brain aneurysm repair
    * Brain surgery
    * Laryngectomy
    * Multiple sclerosis
    * Oral cancer
    * Parkinson disease
    * Stroke
    * Throat or larynx cancer

## Patient Instructions

    * Brain surgery - discharge
    * Dementia - behavior and sleep problems
    * Dementia - daily care
    * Dementia - keeping safe in the home
    * Dry mouth during cancer treatment
    * Enteral nutrition - child - managing problems
    * Gastrostomy feeding tube - bolus
    * Jejunostomy feeding tube 
    * Mouth and neck radiation - discharge
    * Multiple sclerosis - discharge
    * Stroke - discharge 

## Review Date 4/18/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis
    * Cerebral Palsy
    * Esophageal Cancer
    * Esophagus Disorders
    * GERD
    * Head and Neck Cancer
    * Huntington's Disease
    * Multiple Sclerosis
    * Muscular Dystrophy
    * Oral Cancer
    * Parkinson's Disease
    * Salivary Gland Cancer
    * Scleroderma
    * Spinal Muscular Atrophy
    * Stroke
    * Swallowing Disorders
    * Throat Cancer
    * Tracheal Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

