Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000124.htm    
                                Description: You had surgery on your brain. During surgery, your doctor made a surgical cut (incision) in your scalp. A small hole was then drilled into your skull bone or a piece of your skull bone was removed. This    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Brain surgery - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000124.htm

# Brain surgery - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had surgery on your brain. During surgery, your doctor made a surgical cut
(incision) in your scalp. A small hole was then drilled into your skull bone
or a piece of your skull bone was removed. This was done so that the surgeon
could operate on your brain. If a piece of skull bone was removed, at the end
of surgery it was likely put back in place and attached with small metal
plates and screws.

After you go home, follow your health care provider's instructions on how to
care for yourself. Use the information below as a reminder.

## When You're in the Hospital

Surgery was done for one of the following reasons:

    * Correct a problem with a blood vessel.
    * Remove a tumor or other abnormality along the surface of the brain or in the brain tissue itself.

You may have spent some time in the intensive care unit (ICU) and some more
time in a regular hospital room. You may be taking new medicines.

## What to Expect at Home

You'll probably notice itchiness, pain, burning, and numbness along your skin
incision. You may hear a clicking sound where the bone is slowly reattaching.
Complete healing of the bone may take 6 to 12 months.

You may have a small amount of fluid under the skin near your incision. The
swelling may be worse in the morning when you wake up.

You may have headaches. You may notice this more with deep breathing,
coughing, or being active. You may have less energy when you get home. This
may last for several months.

Your doctor may have prescribed medicines for you to take at home. These may
include antibiotics and medicines to prevent seizures. Ask your doctor how
long you should expect to take these medicines. Follow instructions on how to
take these medicines.

If you had a brain aneurysm, you may also have other symptoms or problems.

## Self-care

Take only the pain relievers your provider recommends. Aspirin, ibuprofen
(Advil, Motrin), and some other medicines you may buy at the store may cause
bleeding.

Eat the foods you normally do, unless your provider tells you to follow a
special diet.

Slowly increase your activity. It will take time to get all of your energy
back.

    * Start with walking.
    * Use hand railings when you are on stairways.
    * DO NOT lift more than 20 pounds (9 kg) for the first 2 months.
    * Try not to bend over from your waist. It puts pressure on your head. Instead, keep your back straight and bend at the knees.

Ask your provider when you can begin driving and return to having sex.

Get enough rest. Sleep more at night, and take naps during the day. Also, take
short rest periods during the day.

## Wound Care

Keep the incision clean and dry:

    * Wear a shower cap when you shower or bathe until your surgeon takes out any stitches or staples.
    * Afterward, gently wash your incision, rinse well, and pat dry.
    * Always change the bandage if it gets wet or dirty.

You may wear a loose hat or turban on your head. Do not use a wig for 3 to 4
weeks.

Do not put any creams or lotions on or around your incision. Do not use hair
products with harsh chemicals (coloring, bleach, perms, or straighteners) for
3 to 4 weeks.

You may place ice wrapped in a towel on the incision to help reduce swelling
or pain. Never sleep on an ice pack.

Sleep with your head raised on several pillows. This helps reduce swelling.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your doctor if you have:

    * Fever of 101Â°F (38.3Â°C) or higher, or chills
    * Redness, swelling, discharge, pain, or bleeding from the incision or the incision comes open
    * Headache that does not go away and is not relieved by medicines the doctor gave you
    * Vision changes (double vision, blind spots in your vision)
    * Problems thinking straight, confusion, or more sleepiness than usual
    * Weakness in your arms or legs that you did not have before
    * New problems walking or keeping your balance
    * A hard time waking up
    * Seizure
    * Fluid or blood dripping into your throat
    * New or worsening problem speaking
    * Shortness of breath, chest pain, or are coughing up more mucus
    * Swelling around your wound or underneath your scalp that does not go away within 2 weeks or is getting worse
    * Side effects to a medicine (do not stop taking a medicine without talking to your doctor first)

## Alternative Names

Craniotomy - discharge; Neurosurgery - discharge; Craniectomy - discharge;
Stereotactic craniotomy - discharge; Stereotactic brain biopsy - discharge;
Endoscopic craniotomy - discharge

## References

Ortega-Barnett J, Mohanty A, Desai SK, Patterson JT. Neurosurgery. In:
Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of
Surgery: The Biological Basis of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 67.

Sawyer MM. Postanesthetic care. In: Duke JC, Keech BM, eds. _Anesthesia
Secrets_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 28.

## Read More

    * Acoustic neuroma
    * Brain abscess
    * Brain aneurysm repair
    * Brain surgery
    * Brain tumor - children
    * Brain tumor - primary - adults
    * Cerebral arteriovenous malformation
    * Epilepsy - overview
    * Metastatic brain tumor
    * Subdural hematoma 

## Patient Instructions

    * Brain aneurysm repair - discharge
    * Caring for muscle spasticity or spasms 
    * Communicating with someone with aphasia
    * Communicating with someone with dysarthria
    * Epilepsy in adults - what to ask your doctor
    * Epilepsy in children - discharge
    * Epilepsy in children - what to ask your doctor
    * Epilepsy or seizures - discharge 
    * Stroke - discharge 
    * Swallowing problems 

## Review Date 7/9/2018

Updated by: Luc Jasmin, MD, PhD, FRCS (C), FACS, Department of Surgery,
Holston Valley Medical Center, TN; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery at
UCSF, San Francisco, CA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Brain Aneurysm
    * Brain Diseases
    * Brain Malformations
    * Brain Tumors
    * Childhood Brain Tumors
    * Epilepsy
    * Hydrocephalus
    * Parkinson's Disease
    * Stroke

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

