Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003052.htm    
                                Description: Impaired smell is the partial or total loss or abnormal perception of the sense of smell.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Smell - impaired

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003052.htm

# Smell - impaired

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Impaired smell is the partial or total loss or abnormal perception of the
sense of smell.

## Considerations

The loss of smell can occur with conditions that prevent air from reaching
smell receptors located high in the nose, or loss of or injury to the smell
receptors. Loss of smell is not serious, but can sometimes be a sign of a
nervous system condition.

Temporary loss of the sense of smell is common with colds and nasal allergies,
such as hay fever (allergic rhinitis). It may occur after a viral illness.

Some loss of smell occurs with aging. In most cases, there is no clear cause,
and there is no treatment.

The sense of smell also enhances your ability to taste. Many people who lose
their sense of smell also complain that they lose their sense of taste. Most
can still tell between salty, sweet, sour, and bitter tastes, which are sensed
on the tongue. They may not be able to tell between other flavors. Some spices
(such as pepper) may affect the nerves of the face. You may feel rather than
smell them.

## Causes

Loss of smell can be caused by:

    * Medicines that change or decrease the ability to detect odors, such as amphetamines, estrogen, naphazoline, trifluoperazine, long-term use of nasal decongestants, reserpine, and possibly zinc-based products
    * Blockage of the nose due to nasal polyps, nasal septal deformities, and nasal tumors
    * Infections in nose, throat, or sinuses
    * Allergies
    * Endocrine disorders
    * Dementia or other neurological problems
    * Nutritional deficiencies
    * Head injury or nasal or sinus surgery
    * Radiation therapy to head or face 

## Home Care

Treating the cause of the problem may correct the lost sense of smell.
Treatment can include:

    * Antihistamines (if the condition is due to an allergy)
    * Changes in medicine
    * Surgery to correct blockages
    * Treatment of other disorders

Avoid using too many nasal decongestants, which can lead to repeated nasal
congestion.

If you lose your sense of smell, you may have changes in taste. Adding highly
seasoned foods to your diet can help stimulate the taste sensations that you
still have.

Improve your safety at home by using smoke detectors and electric appliances
instead of gas appliances. You may not be able to smell gas if there is a
leak. Or, install equipment that detects gas fumes in the home. People with
smell loss should label when food items were opened to prevent eating spoiled
food.

There is no treatment for loss of smell due to aging.

If you have a loss of smell due to a recent upper respiratory infection, be
patient. The sense of smell may return to normal without treatment.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

    * The loss of smell continues or is getting worse.
    * You have other unexplained symptoms.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions about your medical
history and current symptoms. Questions may include:

    * When did this problem develop?
    * Are all odors affected or only some? Is your sense of taste affected?
    * Do you have cold or allergyÂ symptoms?
    * What medicines do you take?
    * Do youÂ have any other symptoms?Â 

The provider will look at and around your nose. Tests that may be performed
include:

    * CT scan
    * MRI scan
    * Nasal endoscopy
    * Olfactory nerve testing 
    * Smell testing

If the loss of sense of smell is caused by a stuffy nose (nasal congestion),
decongestants or antihistamines may be prescribed.

Other treatments for a stuffy nose may include:

    * A vaporizer or humidifier may help keep mucus loose and moving.
    * Steroid nasal sprays or pills may be recommended.
    * Vitamin A may be given by mouth orÂ as a shot.
    * Nasal steroid sprays may be prescribed.Â 

## Alternative Names

Loss of smell; Anosmia; Hyposmia; Parosmia; Dysosmia

## References

Baloh RW, Jen JC. Smell and taste. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine._ 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 399.

Leopold DA, Holbrook EH. Physiology of olfaction. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH,
Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery._ 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 39.

## Review Date 8/12/2019

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Taste and Smell
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TasteandSmellDisorders_thumb.jpg)Taste
and Smell Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

