Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003050.htm    
                                Description: Taste impairment means there is a problem with your sense of taste. Problems range from distorted taste to a complete loss of the sense of taste. A complete inability to taste is rare.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Taste - impaired

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003050.htm

# Taste - impaired

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Taste impairment means there is a problem with your sense of taste. Problems
range from distorted taste to a complete loss of the sense of taste. A
complete inability to taste is rare.

## Considerations

The tongue can detect sweet, salty, sour, savory and bitter tastes. Much of
what is perceived as "taste" is actually smell. People who have taste problems
often have a smell disorder that can make it hard to identify a food's flavor.
(Flavor is a combination of taste and smell.)

Taste problems can be caused by anything that interrupts the transfer of taste
sensations to the brain. It can also be caused by conditions that affect the
way the brain interprets these sensations.

![Tasting](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200015t.gif)Watch this
video about:Tasting

## Causes

The sensation of taste often decreases after age 60. Most often, salty and
sweet tastes are lost first. Bitter and sour tastes last slightly longer.

Causes of impaired taste include:

    * Bell's palsy
    * Common cold
    * Flu and other viral infections
    * Nasal infection, nasal polyps, sinusitis
    * Pharyngitis and strep throat
    * Salivary gland infections
    * Head trauma

Other causes are:

    * Ear surgery or injury
    * Sinus or anterior skull base surgery
    * Heavy smoking (especially pipe or cigar smoking)
    * Injury to the mouth, nose, or head
    * Mouth dryness
    * Medicines, such as thyroid drugs, captopril, griseofulvin, lithium, penicillamine, procarbazine, rifampin, clarithromycin, and some drugs used to treat cancer
    * Swollen or inflamed gums (gingivitis)
    * Vitamin B12 or zinc deficiency 

## Home Care

Follow your health care provider's instructions. This may include changes to
your diet. For taste problems due to the common cold or flu, normal taste
should return when the illness passes. If you smoke, stop smoking.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your taste problems do not go away, or if abnormal
tastes occur with other symptoms.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions, including:

    * Do all foods and drinks taste the same?
    * Do you smoke?
    * Does this change in taste affect the ability to eat normally?
    * Have you noticed any problems with your sense of smell?
    * Have you recently changed toothpaste or mouthwash?
    * How long has the taste problem lasted?
    * Have you been sick or injured recently?
    * What medicines do you take?
    * What other symptoms do you have? (For example, appetite loss or breathing problems?)
    * When is the last time you went to the dentist? 

If the taste problem is due to allergies or sinusitis, you may get medicine to
relieve a stuffy nose. If a medicine you are taking is to blame, you may need
to change your dose or switch to a different drug.

A CT scan or MRI scan may be done to look at the sinuses or the part of the
brain that controls the sense of smell.

## Alternative Names

Loss of taste; Metallic taste; Dysgeusia

## References

Baloh RW, Jen JC. Smell and taste. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 427.

Doty RL, Bromley SM. Disturbances of smell and taste. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic
J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 19.

Travers JB, Travers SP, Christian JM. Physiology of the oral cavity. In: Flint
PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 88.

## Review Date 2/27/2019

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Taste and Smell
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TasteandSmellDisorders_thumb.jpg)Taste
and Smell Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

