Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/004013.htm    
                                Description: As you age, the way your senses (hearing, vision, taste, smell, touch) give you information about the world changes. Your senses become less sharp, and this can make it harder for you to notice details.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Aging changes in the senses

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/004013.htm

# Aging changes in the senses

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

As you age, the way your senses (hearing, vision, taste, smell, touch) give
you information about the world changes. Your senses become less sharp, and
this can make it harder for you to notice details.

Sensory changes can affect your lifestyle. You may have problems
communicating, enjoying activities, and staying involved with people. Sensory
changes can lead to isolation.

Your senses receive information from your environment. This information can be
in the form of sound, light, smells, tastes, and touch. Sensory information is
converted into nerve signals that are carried to the brain. There, the signals
are turned into meaningful sensations.

A certain amount of stimulation is required before you become aware of a
sensation. This minimum level of sensation is called the threshold. Aging
raises this threshold. You need more stimulation to be aware of the sensation.

Aging can affect all of the senses, but usually hearing and vision are most
affected. Devices such as glasses and hearing aids, or lifestyle changes can
improve your ability to hear and see.

HEARING

Your ears have two jobs. One is hearing and the other is maintaining balance.
Hearing occurs after sound vibrations cross the eardrum to the inner ear. The
vibrations are changed into nerve signals in the inner ear and are carried to
the brain by the auditory nerve.

![Hearing and the
cochlea](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200057t.gif)Watch this
video about:Hearing and the cochlea

Balance (equilibrium) is controlled in the inner ear. Fluid and small hair in
the inner ear stimulate the auditory nerve. This helps the brain maintain
balance.

As you age, structures inside the ear start to change and their functions
decline. Your ability to pick up sounds decreases. You may also have problems
maintaining your balance as you sit, stand, and walk.

Age-related hearing loss is called presbycusis. It affects both ears. Hearing,
often the ability to hear high-frequency sounds, may decline. You may also
have trouble telling the difference between certain sounds. Or, you may have
problems hearing a conversation when there is background noise. If you are
having trouble hearing, discuss your symptoms with your health care provider.
One way to manage hearing loss is by getting fitted with hearing aids.

Persistent, abnormal ear noise (tinnitus) is another common problem in older
adults. Causes of tinnitus may include wax buildup or medicines that damage
structures inside the ear. If you have tinnitus, ask your provider how to
manage the condition.

Impacted ear wax can also cause trouble hearing and is common with age. Your
provider can remove impacted ear wax.

VISION

Vision occurs when light is processed by your eye and interpreted by your
brain. Light passes through the transparent eye surface (cornea). It continues
through the pupil, the opening to the inside of the eye. The pupil becomes
larger or smaller to control the amount of light that enters the eye. The
colored part of the eye is called the iris. It is a muscle that controls pupil
size. After light passes through your pupil, it reaches the lens. The lens
focuses light on your retina (the back of the eye). The retina converts light
energy into a nerve signal that the optic nerve carries to the brain, where it
is interpreted.

![Seeing](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200013t.gif)Watch this
video about:Seeing

All of the eye structures change with aging. The cornea becomes less
sensitive, so you might not notice eye injuries. By the time you turn 60, your
pupils may decrease to about one third of the size they were when you were 20.
The pupils may react more slowly in response to darkness or bright light. The
lens becomes yellowed, less flexible, and slightly cloudy. The fat pads
supporting the eyes decrease and the eyes sink into their sockets. The eye
muscles become less able to fully rotate the eye.

As you age, the sharpness of your vision (visual acuity) gradually declines.
The most common problem is difficulty focusing the eyes on close-up objects.
This condition is called presbyopia. Reading glasses, bifocal glasses, or
contact lenses can help correct presbyopia.

You may be less able to tolerate glare. For example, glare from a shiny floor
in a sunlit room can make it difficult to get around indoors. You may have
trouble adapting to darkness or bright light. Problems with glare, brightness,
and darkness may make you give up driving at night.

As you age, it gets harder to tell blues from greens than it is to tell reds
from yellows. Using warm contrasting colors (yellow, orange, and red) in your
home can improve your ability to see. Keeping a red light on in darkened
rooms, such as the hallway or bathroom, makes it easier to see than using a
regular night light.

With aging, the gel-like substance (vitreous) inside your eye starts to
shrink. This can create small particles called floaters in your field of
vision. In most cases, floaters do not reduce your vision. But if you develop
floaters suddenly or have a rapid increase in the number of floaters, you
should have your eyes checked by a professional.

Reduced peripheral vision (side vision) is common in older people. This can
limit your activity and ability to interact with others. It may be hard to
communicate with people sitting next to you because you cannot see them well.
Driving can become dangerous.

Weakened eye muscles may prevent you from moving your eyes in all directions.
It may be hard to look upward. The area in which objects can be seen (visual
field) gets smaller.

Aging eyes also may not produce enough tears. This leads to dry eyes. When dry
eyes are not treated, infection, inflammation, and scarring of the cornea can
occur. You can relieve dry eyes by using eye drops or artificial tears.

Common eye disorders that cause vision changes that are NOT normal include:

    * Cataracts \-- clouding of the lens of the eye
    * Glaucoma \-- rise in fluid pressure in the eye
    * Macular degeneration \-- disease in the macula (responsible for central vision) that causes vision loss
    * Retinopathy \-- disease in the retina often caused by diabetes or high blood pressure 

If you are having vision problems, discuss your symptoms with your provider.

TASTE AND SMELL

The senses of taste and smell work together. Most tastes are linked with
odors. The sense of smell begins at the nerve endings high in the lining of
the nose.

You have about 10,000 taste buds. Your taste buds sense sweet, salty, sour,
bitter, and umami flavors. Umami is a taste linked with foods that contain
glutamate, such as the seasoning monosodium glutamate (MSG).

![Tasting](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200015t.gif)Watch this
video about:Tasting

Smell and taste play a role in food enjoyment and safety. A delicious meal or
pleasant aroma can improve social interaction and enjoyment of life. Smell and
taste also allow you to detect danger, such as spoiled food, gases, and smoke.

The number of taste buds decreases as you age. Each remaining taste bud also
begins to shrink. Sensitivity to the five tastes often declines after age 60.
In addition, your mouth produces less saliva as you age. This can cause dry
mouth, which can affect your sense of taste.

Your sense of smell can also diminish, especially after age 70. This may be
related to a loss of nerve endings and less mucus production in the nose.
Mucus helps odors stay in the nose long enough to be detected by the nerve
endings. It also helps clear odors from the nerve endings.

Certain things can speed up the loss of taste and smell. These include
diseases, smoking, and exposure to harmful particles in the air.

Decreased taste and smell can lessen your interest and enjoyment in eating.
You may not be able to sense certain dangers if you cannot smell odors such as
natural gas or smoke from a fire.

If your senses of taste and smell have diminished, talk to your provider. The
following may help:

    * Switch to a different medicine, if the medicine you take is affecting your ability to smell and taste.
    * Use different spices or change the way you prepare food.
    * Buy safety products, such as a gas detector that sounds an alarm you can hear. 

TOUCH, VIBRATION, AND PAIN

The sense of touch makes you aware of pain, temperature, pressure, vibration,
and body position. Skin, muscles, tendons, joints, and internal organs have
nerve endings (receptors) that detect these sensations. Some receptors give
the brain information about the position and condition of internal organs.
Though you may not be aware of this information, it helps to identify changes
(for example, the pain of appendicitis).

Your brain interprets the type and amount of touch sensation. It also
interprets the sensation as pleasant (such as being comfortably warm),
unpleasant (such as being very hot), or neutral (such as being aware that you
are touching something).

![Feeling pain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200009t.gif)Watch
this video about:Feeling pain

With aging, sensations may be reduced or changed. These changes can occur
because of decreased blood flow to the nerve endings or to the spinal cord or
brain. The spinal cord transmits nerve signals and the brain interprets these
signals.

Health problems, such as a lack of certain nutrients, can also cause sensation
changes. Brain surgery, problems in the brain, confusion, and nerve damage
from injury or long-term (chronic) diseases such as diabetes can also result
in sensation changes.

Symptoms of changed sensation vary based on the cause. With decreased
temperature sensitivity, it can be hard to tell the difference between cool
and cold and hot and warm. This can increase the risk of injury from
frostbite, hypothermia (dangerously low body temperature), and burns.

Reduced ability to detect vibration, touch, and pressure increases the risk of
injuries, including pressure ulcers (skin sores that develop when pressure
cuts off blood supply to the area). After age 50, many people have reduced
sensitivity to pain. Or you may feel and recognize pain, but it does not
bother you. For example, when you are injured, you may not know how severe the
injury is because the pain does not trouble you.

You may develop problems walking because of reduced ability to perceive where
your body is in relation to the floor. This increases your risk of falling, a
common problem for older people.

Older people can become more sensitive to light touches because their skin is
thinner.

If you have noticed changes in touch, pain, or problems standing or walking,
talk with your provider. There may be ways to manage the symptoms.

The following measures can help you stay safe:

    * Lower the water heater temperature to no higher than 120Â°F (49Â°C) to avoid burns.
    * Check the thermometer to decide how to dress, rather than waiting until you feel overheated or chilled.
    * Inspect your skin, especially your feet, for injuries. If you find an injury, treat it. DO NOT assume the injury is not serious because the area is not painful. 

OTHER CHANGES

As you grow older, you will have other changes, including:

    * In organs, tissues, and cells
    * In skin
    * In the bones, muscles, and joints
    * In the face
    * In the nervous system

## Images

    * ![Aging changes in hearing](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8683t.jpg)Aging changes in hearing
    * ![Hearing aids](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8685t.jpg)Hearing aids
    * ![Tongue](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8686t.jpg)Tongue
    * ![Sense of sight](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8687t.jpg)Sense of sight
    * ![Aged eye anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23248t.jpg)Aged eye anatomy

## References

Emmett SD, Seshamani M. Otolaryngology in the elderly. In: Flint PW, Haughey
BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck Surgery_. 6th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 16.

Harlow EN, Lyons WL. Assessment. In: Ham RJ, Sloane PD, Warshaw GA, Potter JF,
Flaherty E, eds. _Ham's Primary Care Geriatrics_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 3.

Studenski S, Van Swearingen J. Falls. In: Fillit HM, Rockword K, Young J, eds.
_Brocklehurst's Textbook of Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 103.

Walston JD. Common clinical sequelae of aging. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 25.

## Review Date 7/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eye Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeDiseases_thumb.jpg)Eye
Diseases _Read more_

![Hearing Disorders and
Deafness](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HearingDisordersandDeafness_thumb.jpg)Hearing
Disorders and Deafness _Read more_

![Seniors' Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SeniorHealth_thumb.jpg)Older
Adult Health _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

