Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002989.htm    
                                Description: A facelift is a surgical procedure to repair sagging, drooping, and wrinkled skin of the face and neck.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Facelift

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002989.htm

# Facelift

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A facelift is a surgical procedure to repair sagging, drooping, and wrinkled
skin of the face and neck.

## Description

A facelift can be done alone or with nose reshaping, a forehead lift, or
eyelid surgery.

While you are sleepy (sedated) and pain-free (local anesthesia), or deep
asleep and pain-free (general anesthesia), the plastic surgeon will make
surgical cuts that begin above the hairline at the temples, extend behind the
earlobe, and to the lower scalp. Often, this is one cut. An incision may be
made beneath your chin.

Many different techniques exist. The outcomes for each one are similar but how
long the improvement lasts may vary.

During a facelift, the surgeon may:

    * Remove and "lift" some of the fat and muscle underneath the skin (called the SMAS layer; this is the main lifting part of the facelift)
    * Remove or move loose skin
    * Tighten muscles
    * Perform liposuction of the neck and jowls
    * Use stitches (sutures) to close the cuts 

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Sagging or wrinkled skin occurs naturally as you get older. Folds and fat
deposits appear around the neck. Deep creases form between the nose and mouth.
The jawline grows "jowly" and slack. Genes, poor diet, smoking, or obesity can
make skin problems start sooner or get worse faster.

A facelift can help repair some of the visible signs of aging. Fixing damage
to skin, fat, and muscles can restore a "younger," more refreshed and less
tired look.

People have a facelift because they are not satisfied with the signs of aging
on their face, but they are in otherwise good health.

## Risks

Risks of anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots, or infection 

Risks of face lift surgery include:

    * A pocket of blood under the skin (hematoma) that may need to be drained surgically
    * Damage to the nerves that control muscles of the face (this is usually temporary, but may be permanent)
    * Wounds that do not heal well
    * Pain that does not go away
    * Numbness or other changes in skin sensation 

Although most people are happy with the outcomes, poor cosmetic results that
may need more surgery include:

    * Unpleasant scarring
    * Unevenness of the face
    * Fluid that collects under the skin
    * Irregular skin shape (contour)
    * Changes in skin color
    * Sutures that are noticeable or cause irritation 

## Before the Procedure

Before your surgery, you will have a patient consultation. This will include a
history, physical exam, and a psychological evaluation. You may want to bring
someone (such as your spouse) with you during the visit.

Feel free to ask questions. Be sure you understand the answers to your
questions. You must understand fully the preoperative preparations, the
facelift procedure, the improvement that can be expected, and the care after
surgery.

For theÂ one week before surgery, you may be asked to stop taking blood
thinners. These medicines may cause increased bleeding during the surgery.

    * Some of these drugs are aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), and naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn).
    * If you are taking warfarin (Coumadin), dabigatran (Pradaxa), apixaban (Eliquis), rivaroxaban (Xarelto), or clopidogrel (Plavix), talk with your surgeon before stopping or changing how you take these drugs. 

During the days before your surgery:

    * Ask which medicines you should still take on the day of your surgery.
    * Always let your health care provider know if you have a cold, flu, fever, herpes breakout, or any other illness in the time leading up to your surgery. 

On the day of your surgery:

    * You will likely be asked not to drink or eat anything after midnight the night before your surgery. This includes using chewing gum and breath mints. Rinse your mouth with water if it feels dry. Be careful not to swallow.
    * Take the medicines you have been told to take with a small sip of water.
    * Arrive on time for the surgery. 

Be sure to follow any other specific instructions from your surgeon.

## After the Procedure

The surgeon may temporarily place a small, thin drainage tube under the skin
behind the ear to drain any blood that might collect there. Your head will be
wrapped loosely in bandages to reduce bruising and swelling.

You should not have much discomfort after surgery. You can relieve any
discomfort you do feel with pain medicine the surgeon prescribes. Some
numbness of the skin is normal and will disappear in a few weeks or months.

Your head needs to be raised on 2 pillows (or at a 30-degree angle) for a
couple of days after surgery to keep the swelling down. The drainage tube will
be removed 1 to 2 days after surgery if one was inserted. Bandages are usually
removed after 1 to 5 days. Your face will look pale, bruised, and puffy, but
in 4 to 6 weeks it will look normal.

Some of the stitches will be removed in 5 days. The stitches or metal clips in
the hairline might be left in for a few extra days if the scalp takes longer
to heal.

You should avoid:

    * Taking any aspirin, ibuprofen, or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) for the first few days
    * Smoking and being exposed to secondhand smoke
    * Straining, bending, and lifting right after the surgery

Follow instructions about using concealing makeup after the first week. Mild
swelling may continue for several weeks. You may also have numbness of the
face for up to several months.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people are pleased with the results.

You will have swelling, bruising, skin discoloration, tenderness, and numbness
for 10 to 14 days after the surgery. Most of the surgical scars are hidden in
the hairline or the natural lines of the face and will fade over time. Your
surgeon will probably advise you to limit your sun exposure.

## Alternative Names

Rhytidectomy; Facialplasty; Cosmetic surgery of the face

## Images

    * ![Facelift - series - Indications](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19117t.jpg)Facelift - series

## References

McLain L. Facial cosmetic surgery. In: Hupp JR, Ellis E, Tucker MR, eds.
_Contemporary Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier
Mosby; 2014:chap 27.

Warren RJ. Facelift: principles of and surgical approaches to facelift. In:
Rubin JP, Neligan PC, eds. _Plastic Surgery: Volume 2: Aesthetic Surgery_. 4th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 6.2.

## Review Date 11/15/2017

Updated by: Tang Ho, MD, Assistant Professor, Division of Facial Plastic and
Reconstructive Surgery, Department of Otolaryngology â Head and Neck
Surgery, The University of Texas Medical School at Houston, Houston, TX. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Plastic and Cosmetic
Surgery](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PlasticSurgery2_thumb.jpg)Plastic and
Cosmetic Surgery _Read more_

![Skin Aging](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinAging_thumb.jpg)Skin Aging
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

