Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/presentations/100020_1.htm    
                                Description: Forehead lifts are most commonly done for people in their 40s to 60s to slow the visible effects of aging.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Forehead lift - series--Indications

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/presentations/100020.htm

# Forehead lift - series--Indications

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

    * Go to slide 1 out of 3
    * Go to slide 2 out of 3
    * Go to slide 3 out of 3

![Forehead lift -
series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/7093.jpg)

## Overview

Forehead lifts are most commonly done for people in their 40s to 60s to slow
the visible effects of aging.

In younger people, a forehead lift can raise congenitally low eyebrows that
give the face a sad expression. In people whose brows are so low that they
interfere with the upper field of vision, the forehead lift can be performed
as a reconstructive procedure.

A good forehead lift candidate is someone who has one or more of these facial
characteristics:

    * Sagging brows
    * Tissue that hangs down at the outer part of the eyelids
    * Horizontal wrinkling on the forehead
    * A dysfunctional nose 

Deep furrows between the eyes also can be reduced through a forehead lift.

## Review Date 11/20/2017

Updated by: David A. Lickstein, MD, FACS, specializing in cosmetic and
reconstructive plastic surgery, Palm Beach Gardens, FL. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Plastic and Cosmetic Surgery
    * Skin Aging

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

