Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002977.htm    
                                Description: Eyelid lift surgery is done to repair sagging or drooping upper eyelids (ptosis) and remove excess skin from the eyelids. The surgery is called blepharoplasty.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Eyelid lift

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002977.htm

# Eyelid lift

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Eyelid lift surgery is done to repair sagging or drooping upper eyelids
(ptosis) and remove excess skin from the eyelids. The surgery is called
blepharoplasty.

Sagging or drooping eyelids occur with increasing age. Some people are born
with droopy eyelids or develop a disease that causes eyelid drooping.

## Description

Eyelid surgery is done in a surgeon's office. Or, it is done as outpatient
surgery in a medical center.

The procedure is done as follows:

    * You are given medicine to help you relax.
    * The surgeon injects numbing medicine (anesthesia) around the eye so you do not feel pain during the surgery. You will be awake while the surgery is done.
    * The surgeon makes tiny cuts (incisions) into the natural creases or folds of the eyelids.
    * Loose skin and extra fat tissue are removed. The eyelid muscles are then tightened.
    * At the end of surgery, the incisions are closed with stitches.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

An eyelid lift is needed when eyelid drooping reduces your vision. You may be
asked to have your eye doctor test your vision before you have the surgery.

Some people have an eyelid lift to improve their appearance. This is cosmetic
surgery. The eyelid lift may be done alone or with other surgery such as a
browlift or facelift.

Eyelid surgery will not remove wrinkles around the eyes, lift sagging
eyebrows, or get rid of dark circles under the eyes.

## Risks

Risks for anesthesia and surgery in general include:

    * Reactions to medicines
    * Bleeding, blood clots, infection 

Risks for an eyelid lift may include:

    * Damage to eye or loss of vision (rare)
    * Difficulty closing the eyes while sleeping (rarely permanent)
    * Double or blurred vision
    * Dry eyes
    * Temporary swelling of the eyelids
    * Tiny whiteheads after stitches are removed
    * Slow healing
    * Uneven healing or scarring 
    * Eyelids may not match

Medical conditions that make blepharoplasty more risky are:

    * Diabetes
    * Dry eye or not enough tear production
    * Heart disease or disorders of the blood vessels
    * High blood pressure or other circulatory disorders
    * Thyroid problems, such as hypothyroidism and Graves disease

## After the Procedure

You can usually go home the day of surgery. Arrange ahead of time for an adult
to drive you home.

Before you leave, the health care provider will cover your eyes and eyelids
with ointment and a bandage. Your eyelids may feel tight and sore as the
numbing medicine wears off. The discomfort is easily controlled with pain
medicine.

Keep your head raised as much as possible for several days. Place cold packs
over the area to reduce swelling and bruising. Wrap the cold pack in a towel
before applying. This helps prevent cold injury to the eyes and skin.

Your doctor may recommend an antibiotic or lubricating eye drops to reduce
burning or itching.

You should be able to see well after 2 to 3 days. DO NOT wear contact lenses
for at least 2 weeks. Keep activities to a minimum for 3 to 5 days, and avoid
strenuous activities that raise the blood pressure for about 3 weeks. This
includes lifting, bending, and rigorous sports.

Your doctor will remove the stitches 5 to 7 days after surgery. You will have
some bruising, which may last 2 to 4 weeks. You may notice increased tears,
more sensitivity to light and wind, and blurring or double vision for the
first few weeks.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Scars may remain slightly pink for 6 months or more after surgery. They will
fade to a thin, nearly invisible white line and are hidden within the natural
eyelid fold. The more alert and youthful look usually lasts for years. These
results are permanent for some people.

## Alternative Names

Blepharoplasty; Ptosis - eyelid lift

## Images

    * ![Blepharoplasty - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19101t.jpg)Blepharoplasty - series

## References

Bowling B. Eyelids. In: Bowling B, ed. _Kanski's Clinical Ophthalmology_. 8th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 1.

Few J, Ellis M. Blepharoplasty. In: Rubin JP, Neligan PC, eds. _Plastic
Surgery, Volume 2: Aesthetic Surgery_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 9.

## Review Date 3/12/2019

Updated by: Tang Ho, MD, Assistant Professor, Division of Facial Plastic and
Reconstructive Surgery, Department of Otolaryngology â Head and Neck
Surgery, The University of Texas Medical School at Houston, Houston, TX. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Photograph of an
eye](https://medlineplus.gov/images/eye-211610_640_thumb.jpg)Eyelid Disorders
_Read more_

![Plastic and Cosmetic
Surgery](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PlasticSurgery2_thumb.jpg)Plastic and
Cosmetic Surgery _Read more_

![Skin Aging](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinAging_thumb.jpg)Skin Aging
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

