Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001141.htm    
                                Description: Liver spots are flat, brown or black spots that can appear on areas of the skin that are exposed to the sun. They have nothing to do with the liver or liver function.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Liver spots

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001141.htm

# Liver spots

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Liver spots are flat, brown or black spots that can appear on areas of the
skin that are exposed to the sun. They have nothing to do with the liver or
liver function.

## Causes

Liver spots are changes in skin color that occur in older skin. The coloring
may be due to aging, exposure to the sun or other sources of ultraviolet
light, or causes that are not known.

Liver spots are very common after age 40. They occur most often on areas that
have had the greatest sun exposure, such as the:

    * Backs of the hands
    * Face
    * Forearms
    * Forehead
    * Shoulders

## Symptoms

Liver spots appear as a patch or area of skin color change that is:

    * Flat
    * Light brown to black
    * Painless 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider usually diagnoses the condition based on how your
skin looks, especially if you are over 40 and have had a lot of sun exposure.
You may need a skin biopsy to confirm the diagnosis. The biopsy also helps
rule out a skin cancer called melanoma, if you have a liver spot that looks
irregular or is unusual in other ways.

## Treatment

Most of the time, no treatment is needed. Talk to your provider about using
bleaching lotions or creams. Most bleaching products use hydroquinone. This
medicine is thought to be safe in the form used to lighten darkened skin
areas. However, hydroquinone can cause blisters or skin reactions in sensitive
people.

Talk to your provider about other treatment options, including:

    * Freezing (cryotherapy)
    * Laser treatment
    * Intense pulsed light

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Liver spots are not dangerous to your health. They are permanent skin changes
that affect how your skin looks.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You have liver spots and want them removed
    * You develop any new symptoms, especially changes in the appearance of a liver spot

## Prevention

Protect your skin from the sun by taking the following steps:

    * Cover your skin with clothing such as hats, long-sleeved shirts, long skirts, or pants.
    * Try to avoid the sun at midday, when sunlight is strongest.
    * Use sunglasses to protect your eyes.
    * Use high-quality broad-spectrum sunscreens that have an SPF rating of at least 30. Apply sunscreen at least 30 minutes before you go out in the sun. Reapply it often. Also use sunscreen on cloudy days and in the winter. 

## Alternative Names

Sun-induced skin changes - liver spots; Senile or solar lentigo or lentigines;
Skin spots - aging; Age spots

## Images

    * ![Lentigo - solar on the back](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2435t.jpg)Lentigo - solar on the back
    * ![Lentigo - solar with erythema on the arm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2436t.jpg)Lentigo - solar with erythema on the arm

## References

Habif TP. Light-related diseases and disorders of pigmentation. In: Habif TP,
ed. _Clinical Dermatology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 19.

James WD, Berger TG, Elston DM. Melanocytic nevi and neoplasms. In: James WD,
Berger TG, Elston DM, eds. _Andrews' Diseases of the Skin_. 12th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 30.

## Review Date 10/12/2018

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Skin Aging](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinAging_thumb.jpg)Skin Aging
_Read more_

![Trastornos de pigmentaciÃ³n de la
piel](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinPigmentationDisorders_thumb.jpg)Skin
Pigmentation Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

