Link: https://medlineplus.gov/vaginitis.html    
                                Description: Vaginitis, or vulvovaginitis, is an inflammation or infection of the vagina. It can cause itching, pain, discharge, and odor.  Learn about causes and treatment.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Vaginitis

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/vaginitis.html

#  Vaginitis

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Symptoms
  * Diagnosis and Tests
  * Prevention and Risk Factors
  * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

  * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

  * No links available

### Research

  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * No links available

### For You

  * Teenagers
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is vaginitis?

Vaginitis, also called vulvovaginitis, is an inflammation or infection of the
vagina. It can also affect the vulva, which is the external part of a woman's
genitals. Vaginitis can cause itching, pain, discharge, and odor.

Vaginitis is common, especially in women in their reproductive years. It
usually happens when there is a change in the balance of bacteria or yeast
that are normally found in your vagina. There are different types of
vaginitis, and they have different causes, symptoms, and treatments.

### What causes vaginitis?

Bacterial vaginosis (BV) is the most common vaginal infection in women ages
15-44. It happens when there is an imbalance between the "good" and "harmful"
bacteria that are normally found in a woman's vagina. Many things can change
the balance of bacteria, including

  * Taking antibiotics
  * Douching
  * Using an intrauterine device (IUD)
  * Having unprotected sex with a new partner
  * Having many sexual partners

Yeast infections (candidiasis) happen when too much candida grows in the
vagina. Candida is the scientific name for yeast. It is a fungus that lives
almost everywhere, including in your body. You may have too much growing in
the vagina because of

  * Antibiotics
  * Pregnancy
  * Diabetes, especially if it is not well-controlled
  * Corticosteroid medicines

Trichomoniasis can also cause vaginitis. Trichomoniasis is a common sexually
transmitted disease. It is caused by a parasite.

You can also have vaginitis if you are allergic or sensitive to certain
products that you use. Examples include vaginal sprays, douches, spermicides,
soaps, detergents, or fabric softeners. They can cause burning, itching, and
discharge.

Hormonal changes can also cause vaginal irritation. Examples are when you are
pregnant or breastfeeding, or when you have gone through menopause.

Sometimes you can have more than one cause of vaginitis at the same time.

### What are the symptoms of vaginitis?

The symptoms of vaginitis depend on which type you have.

With BV, you may not have symptoms. You could have a thin white or gray
vaginal discharge. There may be an odor, such as a strong fish-like odor,
especially after sex.

Yeast infections produce a thick, white discharge from the vagina that can
look like cottage cheese. The discharge can be watery and often has no smell.
Yeast infections usually cause the vagina and vulva to become itchy and red.

You may not have symptoms when you have trichomoniasis. If you do have them,
they include itching, burning, and soreness of the vagina and vulva. You may
have burning during urination. You could also have gray-green discharge, which
may smell bad.

### How is the cause of vaginitis diagnosed?

To find out the cause of your symptoms, your health care provider may

  * Ask you about your medical history
  * Do a pelvic exam
  * Look for vaginal discharge, noting its color, qualities, and any odor
  * Study a sample of your vaginal fluid under a microscope

In some cases, you may need more tests.

### What are the treatments for vaginitis?

The treatment depends on which type of vaginitis you have.

BV is treatable with antibiotics. You may get pills to swallow, or cream or
gel that you put in your vagina. During treatment, you should use a condom
during sex or not have sex at all.

Yeast infections are usually treated with a cream or with medicine that you
put inside your vagina. You can buy over-the-counter treatments for yeast
infections, but you need to be sure that you do have a yeast infection and not
another type of vaginitis. See your health care provider if this is the first
time you have had symptoms. Even if you have had yeast infections before, it
is a good idea to call your health care provider before using an over-the-
counter treatment.

The treatment for trichomoniasis is usually a single-dose antibiotic. Both you
and your partner(s) should be treated, to prevent spreading the infection to
others and to keep from getting it again.

If your vaginitis is due to an allergy or sensitivity to a product, you need
to figure out which product is causing the problem. It could be a product that
you started using recently. Once you figure it out, you should stop using the
product.

If the cause of your vaginitis is a hormonal change, your health care provider
may give you estrogen cream to help with your symptoms.

### Can vaginitis cause other health problems?

It is important to treat BV and trichomoniasis, because having either of them
can increase your risk for getting HIV or another sexually transmitted
disease. If you are pregnant, BV or trichomoniasis can increase your risk for
preterm labor and preterm birth.

### Can vaginitis be prevented?

To help prevent vaginitis

  * Do not douche or use vaginal sprays
  * Use a condom when having sex
  * Avoid clothes that hold in heat and moisture
  * Wear cotton underwear

## Start Here

  * Vaginitis (American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists)

## Symptoms

  * What Are the Symptoms of Bacterial Vaginosis? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
  * What Are the Symptoms of Vaginitis? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Bacterial Vaginosis Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * How Do Health Care Providers Diagnose Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
  * How Do Health Care Providers Diagnose Vaginitis? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

  * Can Vaginitis Be Prevented? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

  * How Is Vaginitis Treated? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
  * What Are the Treatments for Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

  * Bacterial Vaginosis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
  * Bacterial Vaginosis (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health)
  * Trichomoniasis: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Vaginal Yeast Infections (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health) Also in Spanish
  * Yeast Infection (Vaginal) (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Yeast Infections: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Candidiasis, Vulvovaginal ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Vaginitis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Vaginosis, Bacterial ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Lactobacillus iners-dominated vaginal microbiota in pregnancy.
  * Article: Probiotics for the Treatment of Bacterial Vaginosis: A Meta-Analysis.
  * Article: Probiotics for the treatment of women with bacterial vaginosis: A systematic...
  * Vaginitis -- see more articles

## Teenagers

  * Bacterial Vaginosis (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish
  * Vaginal Yeast Infections (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

  * Bacterial vaginosis -- aftercare (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Vaginal yeast infection (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Vaginitis - self-care (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Vulvovaginitis - overview (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Vaginitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Vaginitis2.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Bacterial vaginosis -- aftercare
  * Vaginal yeast infection
  * Vaginitis - self-care
  * Vaginitis test - wet mount
  * Vulvovaginitis - overview

## Related Health Topics

  * Trichomoniasis
  * Vaginal Diseases
  * Yeast Infections

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Vaginitis_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 23 August 2019 Topic last reviewed: 15 November 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

