Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003252.htm    
                                Description: Wrinkles are creases in the skin. The medical term for wrinkles is rhytids.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Wrinkles

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003252.htm

# Wrinkles

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Wrinkles are creases in the skin. The medical term for wrinkles is rhytids.

## Considerations

Most wrinkles come from aging changes in skin. Aging of the skin, hair and
nails is a natural process. There is little you can do to slow the rate of
skin aging, but many things in the environment will speed it up.

Frequent exposure to sunlight results in early skin wrinkles and dark areas
(liver spots). It also increases the chances of getting skin cancer. Exposure
to cigarette smoke can also make the skin wrinkle sooner.

## Causes

Common causes of wrinkles include:

    * Genetic factors (family history) 
    * Normal aging changes in the skin
    * Smoking
    * Sun exposure

## Home Care

Stay out of the sun as much as possible to limit skin wrinkles. Wear hats and
clothing that protect your skin and use sunscreen daily. Avoid smoking and
secondhand smoke.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Wrinkles are not usually a cause for concern unless they occur at an early
age. Talk to your health care provider if you think that your skin is getting
wrinkled faster than normal for someone your age. You may need to see a skin
specialist (dermatologist) or a plastic surgeon.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will ask questions, such as:

    * When did you first notice that your skin seemed more wrinkled than normal?
    * Has it changed in any way?
    * Has a skin spot become painful or does it bleed?
    * What other symptoms are you having? 

Your provider will examine your skin. You may need a skin lesion biopsy if you
have any abnormal growths or skin changes.

These are some treatments for wrinkles:

    * Tretinoin (Retin-A) or creams containing alpha-hydroxy acids (such as glycolic acid)
    * Chemical peels, laser resurfacing, or dermabrasion work well for early wrinkles
    * Botulinum toxin (Botox) may be used to correct some of the wrinkles that are caused by overactive facial muscles
    * Medicines injected under the skin can fill in wrinkles or stimulate collagen production
    * Plastic surgery for age-related wrinkles (for example, a facelift) 

## Alternative Names

Rhytid

## Images

    * ![Skin layers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8912t.jpg)Skin layers
    * ![Facelift - series - Indications](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19117t.jpg)Facelift - series

## References

Baumann L, Weisberg E. Skincare and nonsurgical skin rejuvenation. In: Peter
RJ, Neligan PC, eds. _Plastic Surgery, Volume 2: Aesthetic Surgery_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 4.

Patterson JW. Disorders of elastic tissue. In: Patterson JW, ed. _Weedon's
Skin Pathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone;
2016:chap 12.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Skin Aging](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinAging_thumb.jpg)Skin Aging
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

