Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002990.htm    
                                Description: A forehead lift is a surgical procedure to correct sagging of the forehead skin, eyebrows, and upper eyelids. It may also improve the look of wrinkles in the forehead and between the eyes.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Forehead lift

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002990.htm

# Forehead lift

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A forehead lift is a surgical procedure to correct sagging of the forehead
skin, eyebrows, and upper eyelids. It may also improve the look of wrinkles in
the forehead and between the eyes.

## Description

A forehead lift removes or changes the muscles and skin that cause signs of
aging as drooping eyebrows, "hooding" eyelids, forehead furrows, and frown
lines.

The surgery may be done alone or with other procedures such as a facelift,
eyelid surgery, or nose reshaping. The surgery can be done in a surgeon's
office, an outpatient surgery center, or a hospital. It is usually done on an
outpatient basis, without an overnight stay.

You will be awake, but will be given local anesthesia so that you will not
feel pain. You might also get medicine to relax you. In some cases, general
anesthesia will be used. During the procedure, you will feel some stretching
of the forehead skin and possibly some discomfort. During the surgery:

    * Sections of hair will be held away from the surgery area. Hair right in front of the cut line may need to be trimmed, but large areas of hair will not be shaved.
    * The surgeon will make a surgical cut (incision) at ear level. That cut will continue across the top of the forehead at the hairline so that the forehead does not look too high.
    * If you are bald or balding, the surgeon may use a cut in the middle of the scalp to avoid a visible scar.
    * Some surgeons will use several small cuts and perform the surgery using an endoscope (a long thin instrument that has a small camera on the end). Dissolvable implants may be used to hold the lifted skin in place.
    * After removing excess tissue, skin, and muscle, the surgeon will close the cut with stitches or staples. Before dressings are applied, your hair and face will be washed so the scalp skin does not get irritated. 

## Why the Procedure is Performed

This procedure is most often done on people in their 40s to 60s to slow the
effects of aging. It can also help people with inherited conditions, such as
furrowed lines above the nose or a droopy eyebrow.

In younger people, a forehead lift can raise low eyebrows that give the face a
"sad" look. The procedure can also be done in people whose brows are so low
that they block the upper part of their vision.

A good candidate for a forehead lift has one or more of the following:

    * Deep furrows between the eyes
    * Horizontal wrinkles on the forehead
    * Nose that does not work properly
    * Sagging brows
    * Tissue that hangs down at the outer part of the eyelids 

## Risks

Risks of anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Reaction to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots, infection 

Risks of forehead lift surgery include:

    * A pocket of blood under the skin (hematoma) that may need to be drained surgically
    * Damage to the nerves that control muscles of the face (this is usually temporary, but may be permanent)
    * Wounds that do not heal well
    * Pain that does not go away
    * Numbness or other changes in skin sensation 

Occasionally, forehead lifts will make it hard to raise the eyebrows or
wrinkle the forehead on one or both sides. If this happens, you might need
more surgery to make both sides even. If you have already had plastic surgery
to lift your upper eyelids, a forehead lift may not be recommended because it
could affect your ability to close your eyelids.

In most people, the cut for the forehead lift is under the hairline. If you
have a high or receding hairline, you may be able to see a thin scar after
surgery. You will need to style your hair so that it partly covers your
forehead.

If the forehead skin is pulled too tightly or there is a lot of swelling, a
wide scar may form. In some cases, hair loss may occur along the scar edges.
This can be treated by surgically removing the scar tissue or areas of hair
loss so a new scar can form. Permanent hair loss after a forehead lift is
rare.

## Before the Procedure

Before your surgery, you will have a patient consultation. This will include a
history, physical exam, and a psychological evaluation. You may want to bring
someone (such as your spouse) with you during the visit.

Feel free to ask questions. Be sure you understand the answers to your
questions. You must understand fully the preoperative preparations, the
procedure itself, and the care after surgery.

For the one week before surgery, you may be asked to stop taking blood
thinners. These medicines may cause increased bleeding during the surgery.

    * Some of these drugs are aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), and naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn).
    * If you are taking warfarin (Coumadin), dabigatran (Pradaxa), apixaban (Eliquis), rivaroxaban (Xarelto), or clopidogrel (Plavix), talk with your surgeon before stopping or changing how you take these drugs. 

During the days before your surgery:

    * Ask which medicines you should still take on the day of your surgery.
    * Always let your health care provider know if you have a cold, flu, fever, herpes breakout, or any other illness in the time leading up to your surgery. 

On the day of your surgery:

    * You will likely be asked not to drink or eat anything after midnight the night before your surgery. This includes using chewing gum and breath mints. Rinse your mouth with water if it feels dry. Be careful not to swallow.
    * Take the medicines you have been told to take with a small sip of water.
    * Arrive on time for the surgery. 

Be sure to follow any other specific instructions from your surgeon.

## After the Procedure

The area is wrapped with a sterile padding and an elastic bandage to prevent
bleeding and swelling (edema). You will feel numbness and temporary discomfort
in the surgical site, which you can control with medicine.

You'll keep your head raised for 2 to 3 days after surgery to prevent
swelling. Bruising and swelling will occur around the eyes and cheeks, but
should begin to disappear in a few days or a week.

As nerves regrow, numbness of the forehead and scalp will be replaced with
itching or tingling. It may take up to 6 months for these sensations to fully
disappear. The bandages will be removed a day or two after surgery. Within 10
to14 days, the stitches or clips will be removed in two stages.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

You will be able to walk around in 1 to 2 days, but you will not be able to
work for at least 7 days after surgery. You can shampoo and shower 2 days
after surgery, or as soon as the bandages are removed.

Within 10 days, you should be able to go back to work or school. You should
limit vigorous physical activity (jogging, bending, heavy housework, sex, or
any activity that increases your blood pressure) for several weeks. Avoid
contact sports for 6 to 8 weeks. Limit exposure to heat or sun for several
months.

Hair shafts will be a bit thinner around the cut for a few weeks or months,
but the hair should start to grow normally again. Hair will not grow in the
line of the actual scar. Wearing your hair down on your forehead will hide
most scars.

Most signs of the surgery should fade completely within 2 to 3 months. Makeup
can cover minor swelling and bruising. At first, you'll probably feel tired
and let down, but that will pass as you begin to look and feel better.

Most people are pleased with the results of a forehead lift. They appear much
younger and more rested than they did before. The procedure reduces the look
of aging for years. Even if you do not have the surgery repeated in later
years, you will probably look better than if you had never had a forehead
lift.

## Alternative Names

Endobrow lift; Open browlift; Temporal lift

## Images

    * ![Forehead lift - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7093t.jpg)Forehead lift - series

## References

McLain L. Facial cosmetic surgery. In: Hupp JR, Ellis E, Tucker MR, eds.
_Contemporary Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier
Mosby; 2014:chap 27.

Saltz R, Lolofie A. Endscopic brow lifting. In: Rubin JP, Neligan PC, eds.
_Plastic Surgery: Volume 2: Aesthetic Surgery_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 8.

## Review Date 11/15/2017

Updated by: Tang Ho, MD, Assistant Professor, Division of Facial Plastic and
Reconstructive Surgery, Department of Otolaryngology â Head and Neck
Surgery, The University of Texas Medical School at Houston, Houston, TX. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Plastic and Cosmetic
Surgery](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PlasticSurgery2_thumb.jpg)Plastic and
Cosmetic Surgery _Read more_

![Skin Aging](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinAging_thumb.jpg)Skin Aging
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

