Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003640.htm    
                                Description: A1C is a lab test that shows the average level of blood sugar (glucose) over the previous 3 months. It shows how well you are controlling your diabetes.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

A1C test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003640.htm

# A1C test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A1C is a lab test that shows the average level of blood sugar (glucose) over
the previous 3 months. It shows how well you are controlling your diabetes.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed. Two methods are available:

    * Blood drawn from a vein. This is done at a lab.
    * Finger stick. This can be done in your health care provider's office. Or, you may be prescribed a kit that you can use at home. In general, this test is less accurate than the other methods.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is needed. The food you have recently eaten does not
affect the A1C test, so you do not need to fast to prepare for this blood
test.

## How the Test will Feel

With a finger stick, you may feel slight pain.

With blood drawn from a vein, you may feel a slight pinch or some stinging
when the needle is inserted. Afterward, there may be some throbbing or a
slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider may order this test if you have diabetes. It shows how well you
are controlling your diabetes.

The test may also be used to screen for diabetes.

Ask your provider how often you should have your A1C level tested. Usually,
testing every 3 or 6 months is recommended.

## Normal Results

The following are the results when A1C is being used to diagnose diabetes:

    * Normal (no diabetes): Less than 5.7%
    * Pre-diabetes: 5.7% to 6.4%
    * Diabetes: 6.5% or higher 

If you have diabetes, you and your provider will discuss the correct range for
you. For many people, the goal is to keep the level below 7%.

The test result may be incorrect in people with anemia, kidney disease, or
certain blood disorders (thalassemia). Talk to your provider if you have any
of these conditions. Certain medicines can also result in a false A1C level.

The examples above are common measurements for results of these tests. Normal
value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to your
provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result means that you have had a high blood sugar level over a
period of weeks to months.

If your A1C is above 6.5% and you do not already have diabetes, you may be
diagnosed with diabetes.

If your level is above 7% and you have diabetes, it often means that your
blood sugar is not well controlled. You and your provider should determine
your target A1C.

The higher your A1C, the higher the risk that you will develop problems such
as:

    * Eye disease
    * Heart disease
    * Kidney disease
    * Nerve damage
    * Stroke 

If your A1C stays high, talk to your provider about how to best manage your
blood sugar.

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks of having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

HbA1C test; Glycated hemoglobin test; Glycohemoglobin test; Hemoglobin A1C;
Diabetes - A1C; Diabetic - A1C

## Patient Instructions

    * Diabetes tests and checkups

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

American Diabetes Association. 6. Glycemic targets: standards of medical care
in diabetes â 2018. _Diabetes Care_. 2018;41(Suppl 1):S55-S64. PMID:
29222377 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29222377.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Glycosylated hemoglobin (GHb, glycohemoglobin,
glycated hemoglobin, HbA1a, HbA1b, HbA1c) - blood. In: Chernecky CC, Berger
BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier; 2013:596-597.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![A1C](https://medlineplus.gov/images/A1C_thumb.jpg)A1C _Read more_

![Blood Sugar](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodSugar_thumb.jpg)Blood Sugar
_Read more_

![Diabetes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Diabetes_thumb.jpg)Diabetes _Read
more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

