Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000079.htm    
                                Description: Waiting too long to get medical care when you are sick can lead to getting much sicker. When you have diabetes, a delay in getting care can be life threatening. Even a minor cold can make your diabetes    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diabetes - when you are sick

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000079.htm

# Diabetes - when you are sick

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Waiting too long to get medical care when you are sick can lead to getting
much sicker. When you have diabetes, a delay in getting care can be life
threatening. Even a minor cold can make your diabetes harder to control.
Uncontrolled diabetes can lead to more serious health problems.

## What to Expect at Home

When you are sick, keep a close watch on diabetes warning signs. These are:

    * High blood sugar that will not come down with treatment
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Low blood sugar that will not rise after you eat
    * Confusion or changes in how you normally behave

If you have any of these warning signs and cannot treat them yourself, call
your health care provider right away. Make sure your family members also know
the warning signs.

## Sick-day Plan

Check your blood sugar more often than usual (every 2 to 4 hours). Try to keep
your blood sugar at less than 200 mg/dL (11.1 mmol/L). There may be times when
you need to check your blood sugar every hour. Write down all your blood sugar
levels, the time of each test, and the medicines you have taken.

If you have type 1 diabetes, check your urine ketones every time you urinate.

Eat small meals often. Even if you are not eating as much, your blood sugar
can still get very high. If you use insulin, you may even need extra insulin
injections or higher doses.

DO NOT do vigorous exercise when you are sick.

If you take insulin, you should also have a glucagon emergency treatment kit
prescribed by your doctor. Always have this kit available.

## Drink Lots of Fluids

Drink plenty of sugar-free fluids to keep your body from getting dried out
(dehydrated). Drink at least twelve 8-ounce (oz) cups (3 liters) of fluid a
day.

Fluids you can drink if you are dehydrated include:

    * Water
    * Club soda
    * Diet soda (caffeine-free)
    * Tomato juice
    * Chicken broth

If your blood sugar is less than 100 mg/dL (5.5 mmol/L) or falling quickly, it
is OK to drink fluids that have sugar in them. Try to check their effect on
your blood sugar in the same way you check how other foods affect your blood
sugar.

Fluids you can drink if your blood sugar is low include:

    * Apple juice
    * Orange juice
    * Grapefruit juice
    * Sports drink
    * Tea with honey
    * Lemon-lime drinks
    * Ginger ale

If you throw up, DO NOT drink or eat anything for 1 hour. Rest, but DO NOT lie
flat. After 1 hour, take sips of soda, such as ginger ale, every 10 minutes.
If vomiting persists call or see your provider.

## Eating When You are Sick

When you have an upset stomach, try to eat small meals. Try carbohydrates,
such as:

    * Bagels or bread
    * Cooked cereal
    * Mashed potatoes
    * Noodle or rice soup
    * Saltines
    * Fruit-flavored gelatin
    * Graham crackers 

Many foods have the right amount of carbohydrates (about 15 grams) for your
sick-day diet. Remember, on sick days it is OK to eat some foods you might not
normally eat, if you cannot eat your regular foods. Some foods to try are:

    * One half cup (120 milliliters, mL) apple juice
    * One half cup (120 mL) regular soft drink (non-diet, caffeine free)
    * One fruit-flavored frozen pop (1 stick)
    * Five small hard candies
    * One slice of dry toast
    * One half cup (120 mL) cooked cereal
    * Six saltine crackers
    * One half cup (120 mL) frozen yogurt
    * One cup (240 mL) sports drink
    * One half cup (120 mL) regular ice cream (if you are not throwing up)
    * One quarter cup (60 mL) sherbet
    * One quarter cup (60 mL) regular pudding (if you are not throwing up)
    * One half cup (120 mL) regular fruit-flavored gelatin
    * One cup (240 mL) yogurt (not frozen), sugar-free or plain
    * Milkshake made with one half cup (120 mL) low-fat milk and one quarter cup (60 mL) ice cream mixed in a blender (if you are not throwing up) 

When you are sick, you should try to eat the same amount of carbohydrates that
you normally do. If possible, follow your regular diet. If you are having a
hard time swallowing, eat soft foods.

If you have already taken your insulin and are sick to your stomach, drink
enough liquids with the same amount of carbohydrates that you would normally
eat. If you cannot keep food or liquids down, go to the emergency room for
treatment. You will receive intravenous (IV) fluids.

If you have a cold, talk with your provider.

## Diabetes Medicines

Most of the time, you should take all of your medicines as you usually do. DO
NOT skip or double up on any medicine unless your provider tells you to.

If you cannot eat your normal amount of carbohydrates, call your provider. You
may need to make a change in your insulin dose or in the dose of your diabetes
pills or other injections.Â You may also need to do this if your illness is
making your blood sugar higher than normal.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have:

    * Blood sugar higher than 240 mg/dL (13.3 mmol/L) for more than 1 day
    * Moderate-to-large ketones with your urine tests
    * Vomiting or diarrhea for more than 4 hours
    * Any severe pain or chest pain
    * A fever of 100Â°F (37.7Â°C) or higher
    * Trouble moving your arms or legs
    * Vision, speech, or balance problems
    * Confusion or new memory problems 

If your provider does not call back right away, you may need to go to the
emergency room. This is particularly important if you are vomiting or have
diarrhea for more than 4 hours.

## Alternative Names

Sick-day management - diabetes; Diabetes - sick day management

## References

American Diabetes Association. 4. Lifestyle management: standards of medical
care in diabetes-2018. _Diabetes Care_. 2018;41(Suppl 1):S38-S50. PMID:
29222375 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29222375.

Laufgraben M, Kaufman ST. Acute diabetic emergencies, glycemic control, and
hypoglycemia. In: Parrillo JE, Dellinger RP, eds. _Critical Care Medicine:
Principles of Diagnosis and Management in the Adult_. 4th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 58.

National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases website. Take
care of your diabetes during sick days & special times.
www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/diabetes/overview/managing-diabetes/sick-
days-special-times. Updated February 2014. Accessed June 15, 2018.

## Read More

    * Diabetes
    * Type 1 diabetes
    * Type 2 diabetes

## Patient Instructions

    * ACE inhibitors
    * Diabetes and exercise 
    * Diabetes eye care
    * Diabetes - foot ulcers
    * Diabetes - keeping active 
    * Diabetes - preventing heart attack and stroke
    * Diabetes - taking care of your feet
    * Diabetes tests and checkups
    * Low blood sugar - self-care
    * Managing your blood sugar
    * Type 2 diabetes - what to ask your doctor

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, Associate Professor of Medicine, Division of
Metabolism, Endocrinology & Nutrition, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Diabetes
    * Diabetes Type 1
    * Diabetes in Children and Teens

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

