Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003701.htm    
                                Description: C-peptide is a substance that is created when the hormone insulin is produced and released into the body. The insulin C-peptide test measures the amount of this product in the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Insulin C-peptide test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003701.htm

# Insulin C-peptide test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

C-peptide is a substance that is created when the hormone insulin is produced
and released into the body. The insulin C-peptide test measures the amount of
this product in the blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Preparation for the test depends on the reason for the C-peptide measurement.
Ask your health care provider if you should not eat (fast) before the test.
Your provider may ask you to stop taking medicines that can affect the test
results.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

C-peptide is measured to tell the difference between insulin the body produces
and insulin that is injected into the body.

Someone with type 1 or type 2 diabetes may have their C-peptide level measured
to see if their body is still producing insulin. C-peptide is also measured in
case of low blood sugar to see if the person's body is producing too much
insulin.

The test is also often ordered to check certain medicines that can help the
body produce more insulin, such as glucagon-like peptide 1 analogs (GLP-1) or
DPP IV inhibitors.

## Normal Results

A normal result is between 0.5 to 2.0 nanograms per milliliter (ng/mL), or
0.17 to 0.83 nanomoles per liter (nmol/L).

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

C-peptide level is based on blood sugar level. C-peptide is a sign that your
body is producing insulin. A low level (or no C-peptide) indicates that your
pancreas is producing little or no insulin.

    * A low level may be normal if you have not eaten recently. Your blood sugar and insulin levels would naturally be low then.
    * A low level is abnormal if your blood sugar is high and your body should be making insulin at that time.

People with type 2 diabetes, obesity, or insulin resistance may have a high
C-peptide level. This means their body is producing a lot of insulin to keep
their blood sugar normal.

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken.Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be more difficult than
from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight but may include:

    * Bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to try to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

C-peptide

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9879t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Atkinson MA. Type 1 diabetes mellitus. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR,
Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 32.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. C-peptide (connecting peptide) â serum. In:
Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2013:391-392.

Polonsky KS, Burant CF. Type 2 diabetes mellitus. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS,
Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 31.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Diabetes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Diabetes_thumb.jpg)Diabetes _Read
more_

![Diabetes in Children and
Teens](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesinChildrenandTeens_thumb.jpg)Diabetes
in Children and Teens _Read more_

![Hormones](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hormones2_thumb.jpg)Hormones _Read
more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

