Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003482.htm    
                                Description: A blood sugar test measures the amount of a sugar called glucose in a sample of your blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Blood sugar test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003482.htm

# Blood sugar test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A blood sugar test measures the amount of a sugar called glucose in a sample
of your blood.

Glucose is a major source of energy for most cells of the body, including
brain cells. Glucose is a building block for carbohydrates. Carbohydrates are
found in fruit, cereal, bread, pasta, and rice. Carbohydrates are quickly
turned into glucose in your body. This can raise your blood glucose level.

Hormones made in the body help control blood glucose level.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

The test may be done in the following ways:

    * After you have not eaten anything for at least 8 hours (fasting)
    * At any time of the day (random)
    * Two hours after you drink a certain amount of glucose (oral glucose tolerance test) 

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or slight bruising. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your doctor may order this test if you have signs of diabetes. More than
likely, the doctor will order a fasting blood sugar test.

The blood glucose test is also used to monitor people who already have
diabetes.

The test may also be done if you have:

    * An increase in how often you need to urinate
    * Recently gained a lot of weight
    * Blurred vision
    * Confusion or a change in the way you normally talk or behave
    * Fainting spells
    * Seizures (for the first time) 
    * Unconsciousness or coma

SCREENING FOR DIABETES

This test may also be used to screen a person for diabetes.

High blood sugar and diabetes may not cause symptoms in the early stages. A
fasting blood sugar test is almost always done to screen for diabetes.

If you are over age 45, you should be tested every 3 years.

If you're overweight (body mass index, or BMI, of 25 or higher) and have any
of the risk factors below, ask your health care provider about getting tested
at an earlier age and more often:

    * High blood sugar level on a previous test
    * Blood pressure of 140/90 mm Hg or higher, or unhealthy cholesterol levels
    * History of heart disease
    * Member of a high-risk ethnic group (African American, Latino, Native American, Asian American, or Pacific Islander)
    * Woman who has been diagnosed with gestational diabetes
    * Polycystic ovary disease (condition in which a woman has an imbalance of female sex hormones causing cysts in the ovaries)
    * Close relative with diabetes (such as a parent, brother, or sister)
    * Not physically active 

Children age 10 and older who are overweight and have at least two of the risk
factors listed above should be tested for type 2 diabetes every 3 years, even
if they have no symptoms.

## Normal Results

If you had a fasting blood glucose test, a level between 70 and 100 mg/dL (3.9
and 5.6 mmol/L) is considered normal.

If you had a random blood glucose test, a normal result depends on when you
last ate. Most of the time, the blood glucose level will be 125 mg/dL (6.9
mmol/L) or lower.

The examples above show the common measurements for results of these tests.
Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or may test different specimens. Talk to your
doctor about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

If you had a fasting blood glucose test:

    * A level of 100 to 125 mg/dL (5.6 to 6.9 mmol/L) means you have impaired fasting glucose, a type of prediabetes. This increases your risk of developing type 2 diabetes.
    * A level of 126 mg/dL (7 mmol/L) or higher usually means you have diabetes. 

If you had a random blood glucose test:

    * A level of 200 mg/dL (11 mmol/L) or higher often means you have diabetes.
    * Your provider will order a fasting blood glucose, A1C test, or glucose tolerance test, depending on your random blood glucose test result.
    * In someone who has diabetes, an abnormal result on the random blood glucose test may mean that the diabetes is not well controlled. 

Other medical problems can also cause a higher-than-normal blood glucose
level, including:

    * Overactive thyroid gland
    * Pancreatic cancer
    * Swelling and inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis)
    * Stress due to trauma, stroke, heart attack, or surgery
    * Rare tumors, including pheochromocytoma, acromegaly, Cushing syndrome, or glucagonoma

A lower-than-normal blood glucose level (hypoglycemia) may be due to:

    * Hypopituitarism (a pituitary gland disorder)
    * Underactive thyroid gland or adrenal gland
    * Tumor in the pancreas (insulinoma \- very rare)
    * Too little food
    * Too much insulin or other diabetes medicines
    * Liver or kidney disease
    * Weight loss after weight loss surgery
    * Vigorous exercise 

Some medicines can raise or lower your blood glucose level. Before having the
test, tell your provider about all the medicines you are taking.

For some thin young women, a fasting blood sugar level below 70 mg/dL (3.9
mmol/L) may be normal.

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken.Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be more difficult than
from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

Random blood sugar; Blood sugar level; Fasting blood sugar; Glucose test;
Diabetic screening - blood sugar test; Diabetes - blood sugar test

## Patient Instructions

    * Type 2 diabetes - what to ask your doctor

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

American Diabetes Association. 2. Classification and diagnosis of diabetes:
standards of medical care in diabetes - 2019. _Diabetes Care._ 2019;42(Suppl
1):S13-S28. PMID: 30559228 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30559228.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Glucose, 2-hour postprandial - serum. In: Chernecky
CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:585.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Glucose tolerance test (GTT, OGTT) - blood. In:
Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:591-593.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, Associate Professor of Medicine, Division of
Metabolism, Endocrinology & Nutrition, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Internal review and update on 03/28/2019 by David
Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood Sugar](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodSugar_thumb.jpg)Blood Sugar
_Read more_

![Diabetes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Diabetes_thumb.jpg)Diabetes _Read
more_

![Diabetes in Children and
Teens](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesinChildrenandTeens_thumb.jpg)Diabetes
in Children and Teens _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

