Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000964.htm    
                                Description: Diabetes is a long-term (chronic) disease in which the body cannot regulate the amount of glucose (sugar) in the blood. Diabetes is a complicated disease. If you have diabetes ,or know anyone who has it,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diabetes myths and facts

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000964.htm

# Diabetes myths and facts

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Diabetes is a long-term (chronic) disease in which the body cannot regulate
the amount of glucose (sugar) in the blood. Diabetes is a complicated disease.
If you have diabetes ,or know anyone who has it, you may have questions about
the disease. There are many popular myths about diabetes and its management.
Here are some facts you should know about diabetes.

## Information

**Myth: No one in my family has diabetes, so I won't get the disease.**

 **Fact:** It's true that having a parent or sibling with diabetes increases
your risk for getting diabetes. In fact, family history is a risk factor for
both type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes. However, many people with diabetes
have no close family members with diabetes.

Lifestyle choices and certain conditions can increase your risk for type 2
diabetes. These include:

    * Being overweight or obese
    * Having prediabetes
    * Polycystic ovary disease
    * Gestational diabetes
    * Being Hispanic/Latino American, African American, American Indian, Alaska Native (some Pacific Islanders and Asian Americans are also at risk)
    * Being age 45 or older 

You can help reduce your risk by staying at a healthy weight, exercising most
days of the week, and eating a healthy diet.

 **Myth: I will likely develop diabetes because I am overweight.**

 **Fact:** It is true that excess weight increases your chance of having
diabetes. However, many people who are overweight or obese never develop
diabetes. And people who are normal weight or only a little overweight do
develop diabetes. Your best bet is to take steps to lower your risk by using
nutritional changes and physical activity to lose excess weight.

 **Myth: I eat a lot of sugar, so I am worried I'll get diabetes.**

 **Fact:** Eating sugar does not cause diabetes. But you should still cut back
on sweets and sugary beverages.

It's not surprising that people get confused about whether sugar causes
diabetes. This confusion may come from the fact that when you eat food, it is
converted into a sugar called glucose. Glucose, also called blood sugar, is a
source of energy for the body. Insulin moves glucose from the blood into the
cells so it can be used for energy. With diabetes, the body does not make
enough insulin, or the body does not use insulin well. As a result the extra
sugar stays in the blood, so the blood glucose (blood sugar) level increases.

For people who do not have diabetes, the main problem with eating a lot of
sugar and drinking sugar-sweetened beverages is that it can make you
overweight. And being overweight does increase your risk for diabetes.

 **Myth: I was told I have diabetes, so now I'll have to eat a special diet.**

 **Fact:** People with diabetes eat the same foods that everyone eats. In
fact, The American Diabetes Association no longer recommends specific amounts
of carbohydrate, fat, or protein to eat. But they do suggest that people with
diabetes get their carbohydrates from vegetables, whole grains, fruits, and
legumes. Avoid foods that are high in fat, sodium, and sugar. These
recommendations are similar to what everyone should be eating.

If you have diabetes, work with your health care provider to develop a meal
plan that works best for you and that you will be able to follow consistently
over time. A healthy and balanced meal plan with a healthy lifestyle will help
you manage diabetes.

 **Myth: I have diabetes, so I can never eat sweets.**

 **Fact:** Sweets are full of simple sugars, which increase the amount of
glucose in your blood more than other foods. But they are not off limits for
people with diabetes, as long as you plan for them. It's best to save sweets
for special occasions or as a treat. You can eat small amounts of sugar in
place of other carbohydrates usually eaten at a meal. If you take insulin your
provider may instruct you to take higher doses than normal when you do eat
sweets.

 **Myth: My doctor put me on insulin. This means I am not doing a good job
managing my blood sugar.**

 **Fact:** People with type 1 diabetes must use insulin because their body no
longer produces this important hormone. Type 2 diabetes is progressive, which
means that the body makes less insulin over time. So over time, exercise, diet
changes, and oral medicines may not be enough to keep your blood sugar in
control. Then you need to use insulin to keep blood sugar in a healthy range.

 **Myth: It is not safe to exercise with diabetes.**

 **Fact:** Getting regular exercise is an important part of managing diabetes.
Exercise helps boost your body's sensitivity to insulin. It can also help
lower your A1C, a test that helps tell how well your diabetes is controlled.

A good goal is to aim for at least 150 minutes per week of moderate-to-
vigorous exercise like brisk walking. Include two sessions a week of strength
training as part of your exercise routine. If you haven't exercised in awhile,
walking is a great way to slowly build your fitness.

Talk to your provider to make sure your exercise program is safe for you.
Depending on how well-controlled your diabetes is, you will need to prevent
and monitor for problems with your eyes, heart, and feet. Also, learn how to
take your medicines when you exercise or how to adjust the dosage of medicines
to prevent low blood sugar.

**Myth: I have borderline diabetes, so I don't need to worry.**

 **Fact:**Prediabetes is the term used for those whose blood sugar levels are
not in the diabetes range but are too high to be called normal. Prediabetes
means that you are at high risk for developing diabetes within 10 years. You
may be able to lower your blood sugar to normal levels by lowering your body
weight and exercising 150 minutes a week.

Talk to your provider about your risk for diabetes and what you can do to
lower your risk.

**Myth: I can stop taking diabetes medicines once my blood sugar is under
control.**

 **Fact:** Some people with type 2 diabetes, are able to control their blood
sugar without medicine by losing weight, eating a healthy diet, and getting
regular exercise. But diabetes is a progressive disease, and over time, even
if you are doing all you can to stay healthy, you may need medicine to keep
your blood sugar within your target range.

## Alternative Names

Diabetes - common myths and facts; High blood sugar myths and facts

## References

American Diabetes Association. Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes - 2018.
_Diabetes Care_. 2018;41(Suppl 1).

Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St Geme JW, Schor NF. Diabetes mellitus. In: Kliegman
RM, Stanton BF, St Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 589.

Marion J, Franz MS. Diabetes nutrition therapy: Effectiveness, macronutrients,
eating patterns and weight management. _Am J Med Sci_. 2016;351(4):374-379.
PMID: 27079343 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27079343.

Waller DG, Sampson AP. Diabetes mellitus. In: Waller DG, Sampson AP, eds.
_Medical Pharmacology & Therapeutics_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 40.

## Review Date 1/24/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, Associate Professor of Medicine, Division of
Metabolism, Endocrinology & Nutrition, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Diabetes

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

