Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000084.htm    
                                Description: If you have diabetes, you may think that only vigorous exercise is helpful. But this is not true. Increasing your daily activity by any amount can help improve your health. And there are a lot of ways    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diabetes - keeping active

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000084.htm

# Diabetes - keeping active

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If you have diabetes, you may think that only vigorous exercise is helpful.
But this is not true. Increasing your daily activity by any amount can help
improve your health. And there are a lot of ways to add more activity to your
day.

## Introduction

There are many benefits to being active. Staying active can:

    * Help control your blood sugar
    * Help control your weight
    * Keep your heart, lungs, and blood vessels healthy 

## Staying Active at Home

One of the best things you can do is get up and start moving. Any activity is
better than no activity.

Clean the house. Walk around when you are on the phone. Take frequent, short
breaks at least every 30 minutes to get up and walk around when using the
computer.

Get outside of your house and do chores, such as gardening, raking leaves, or
washing the car. Play outside with your kids or grandchildren. Take the dog
for a walk.

## Staying Active Outside the Home

For many people with diabetes, an activity program outside the home is a great
option.

    * Talk to your health care provider about your plans and discuss what activities are right for you.
    * Visit the gym or a fitness facility and have an instructor show you how to use the equipment. Pick a gym that has an atmosphere you enjoy and gives you a number of options in terms of activities and locations.
    * When the weather is cold or wet, stay active by walking around in places like a mall.
    * Make sure you are using the right shoes and equipment.
    * Start slowly. A common mistake is to try and do too much too quickly. This can result in muscle and joint injury.
    * Involve friends or family. Activity in a group or with partners is usually more fun and motivating.

## Shopping, Running Errands, and Working

When you run errands:

    * Walk as much as you can.
    * If you do drive, park your car in the farthest part of the parking lot.
    * DO NOT use drive-up windows. Get out of your car and walk inside the restaurant or retailer.

At work:

    * Walk over to your co-workers instead of calling, texting, or sending them emails.
    * Take the stairs instead of the elevator -- start with 1 floor up or 2 floors down and try to increase over time.
    * Stand up and move around while making phone calls.
    * Stretch or walk around instead of taking a coffee break or snacking.
    * During lunch, walk to the bank or post office, or do other errands that allow you to move around.

At the end of your commute, get off the train or bus one stop earlier and walk
the rest of the way to work or home.

If you want to find out how much activity you are getting during the day, use
a wearable activity monitor or a step counting device, called a pedometer.
Once you know how many steps you average in a day, try to take more steps each
day. Your goal for better health should be around 10,000 steps a day, or
progressively more steps than you took the day before.

## Health Risks

There are some health risks to beginning new activity programs. Always check
with your provider before getting started.

People with diabetes are at increased risk of having heart problems. They
don't always sense the warning signs of a heart attack. Ask your doctor if you
need to be screened for heart disease, particularly if you:

    * Also have high blood pressure
    * Also have high cholesterol
    * Smoke
    * Have a history of heart disease in your family 

People with diabetes who are overweight or obese are at higher risk of having
arthritis or other joint problems. Talk to your provider if you have had joint
pain with activity in the past.

Some people who are obese may develop skin rashes when they start new
exercises. These can often be prevented by choosing the right clothing. If you
develop a skin infection or rash, often in skin folds, talk to your provider
and make sure it is treated before you continue being active.

People with diabetes and nerve damage in their feet need to be extra careful
when starting new activities. Check your feet daily for redness, blisters, or
calluses that are starting to form. Always wear socks. Check your socks and
shoes for rough spots, which can cause blisters or ulcers. Make sure your
toenails are trimmed.

Some types of vigorous exercise can damage your eyes if you already have
diabetic eye disease. Get an eye exam before starting a new exercise program.

## Alternative Names

Physical activity - diabetes; Exercise - diabetes

## References

American Diabetes Association. 4. Lifestyle management: standards of medical
care in diabetes-2018. _Diabetes Care_. 2018;41(Suppl 1):S38-S50. PMID:
29222375 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29222375.

Eckel RH, Jakicic JM, Ard JD, et al. American College of Cardiology/American
Heart Association Task Force on practice guidelines. 2013 AHA/ACC guideline on
lifestyle management to reduce cardiovascular risk: a report of the American
College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on practice
guidelines. _Circulation_. 2014;129(25 Suppl 2):S76-S99. PMID: 24222015
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24222015.

Kirk SE. The diabetic athlete. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee &
Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 21.

## Read More

    * Type 1 diabetes
    * Type 2 diabetes

## Patient Instructions

    * ACE inhibitors
    * Diabetes and exercise 
    * Diabetes eye care
    * Diabetes - foot ulcers
    * Diabetes - preventing heart attack and stroke
    * Diabetes - taking care of your feet
    * Diabetes tests and checkups
    * Diabetes - when you are sick
    * Low blood sugar - self-care
    * Managing your blood sugar
    * Type 2 diabetes - what to ask your doctor

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, Associate Professor of Medicine, Division of
Metabolism, Endocrinology & Nutrition, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Diabetes
    * Diabetes Type 1
    * Diabetes in Children and Teens

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

