Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000082.htm    
                                Description: People who take control of their own diabetes care by eating healthy foods and living an active lifestyle often have good control of their blood sugar levels. Still, regular health checkups and tests are    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diabetes tests and checkups

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000082.htm

# Diabetes tests and checkups

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

People who take control of their own diabetes care by eating healthy foods and
living an active lifestyle often have good control of their blood sugar
levels. Still, regular health checkups and tests are needed. These visits give
you a chance to:

    * Ask your health care provider questions
    * Learn more about your diabetes and what you can do to keep your blood sugar in your target range
    * Make sure you are taking your medicines the right way 

## See Your Doctor

See your diabetes doctor for an exam every 3 to 6 months. During this exam,
your doctor should check your:

    * Blood pressure
    * Weight
    * Feet 

See your dentist every 6 months, also.

## Eye Exams

An eye doctor should check your eyes every year. See an eye doctor who takes
care of people with diabetes.

If you have eye problems because of diabetes, you will probably see your eye
doctor more often.

## Foot Exams

Your doctor should check the pulses in your feet and your reflexes at least
once a year. Your doctor should also look for:

    * Calluses
    * Infections
    * Sores
    * Loss of feeling anywhere in your feet (peripheral neuropathy) 

If you have had foot ulcers before, see your doctor every 3 to 6 months. It is
always a good idea to ask your doctor to check your feet.

## Hemoglobin A1C Tests

An A1C lab test shows how well you are controlling your blood sugar levels
over a 3-month period.

The normal level is less than 5.7%. Most people with diabetes should aim for
an A1C of less than 7%. Some people have a higher target. Your doctor will
help decide what your target should be.

Higher A1C numbers mean that your blood sugar is higher and that you may be
more likely to have complications from your diabetes.

## Cholesterol

A cholesterol profile test measures cholesterol and triglycerides in your
blood. You should have this kind of test in the morning, after not eating
since the night before.

Adults with type 2 diabetes should have this test every 5 years. People with
high cholesterol or are on medicines to control their cholesterol may have
this test more often.

## Blood Pressure

Blood pressure should be measured at every visit.

## Kidney Tests

Once a year, you should have a urine test that looks for a protein called
albumin.

Your doctor will also have you take a blood test every year that measures how
well your kidneys work.

## Alternative Names

Routine diabetes tests; Diabetes - prevention

## References

American Diabetes Association. 3. Comprehensive medical evaluation and
assessment of comorbidities: standards of medical care in diabetes-2018.
_Diabetes Care_. 2018;41(Suppl 1):S28-S37. PMID: 29222374
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29222374.

Cagliero E. Diabetes and long-term complications. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ,
de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 51.

## Read More

    * A1C test
    * Diabetes and eye disease
    * High blood pressure - adults
    * Microalbuminuria test
    * Type 1 diabetes
    * Type 2 diabetes

## Patient Instructions

    * ACE inhibitors
    * Diabetes and exercise 
    * Diabetes eye care
    * Diabetes - foot ulcers
    * Diabetes - keeping active 
    * Diabetes - preventing heart attack and stroke
    * Diabetes - taking care of your feet
    * Diabetes - when you are sick
    * Low blood sugar - self-care
    * Managing your blood sugar
    * Type 2 diabetes - what to ask your doctor

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, Associate Professor of Medicine, Division of
Metabolism, Endocrinology & Nutrition, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Diabetes
    * Diabetes Type 1

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

