Link: https://medlineplus.gov/birthdefects.html    
                                Description: None    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Birth Defects

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/birthdefects.html

#  Birth Defects

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Diagnosis and Tests
  * Prevention and Risk Factors

### Learn More

  * Living With
  * Related Issues
  * Specifics
  * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

  * No links available

### Research

  * Statistics and Research
  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Reference Desk
  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What are birth defects?

A birth defect is a problem that happens while a baby is developing in the
mother's body. Most birth defects happen during the first 3 months of
pregnancy. One out of every 33 babies in the United States is born with a
birth defect.

A birth defect may affect how the body looks, works, or both. Some birth
defects like cleft lip or neural tube defects are structural problems that can
be easy to see. Others, like heart disease, are found using special tests.
Birth defects can range from mild to severe. How a birth defect affects a
child's life depends mostly on which organ or body part is involved and how
severe the defect is.

### What causes birth defects?

For some birth defects, researchers know the cause. But for many birth
defects, the exact cause is unknown. Researchers think that most birth defects
are caused by a complex mix of factors, which can include

  * **Genetics.** One or more genes might have a change or mutation that prevents them from working properly. For example, this happens in Fragile X syndrome. With some defects, a gene or part of the gene might be missing.
  * **Chromosomal problems.** In some cases, a chromosome or part of a chromosome might be missing. This is what happens in Turner syndrome. In other cases, such as with Down syndrome, the child has an extra chromosome. 
  * **Exposures tomedicines, chemicals, or other toxic substances.** For example, alcohol misuse can cause fetal alcohol spectrum disorders.
  * **Infections during pregnancy.** For example, infection with Zika virus during pregnancy can cause a serious defect in the brain.
  * **Lack of certain nutrients.** Not getting enough folic acid before and during pregnancy is a key factor in causing neural tube defects.

### Who is at risk of having a baby with birth defects?

Certain factors may might increase the chances of having a baby with a birth
defect, such as

  * Smoking, drinking alcohol, or taking certain "street" drugs during pregnancy
  * Having certain medical conditions, such as obesity or uncontrolled diabetes, before and during pregnancy
  * Taking certain medicines
  * Having someone in your family with a birth defect. To learn more about your risk of having a baby with a birth defect, you can talk with a genetic counselor,
  * Being an older mother, typically over the age of 34 years

### How are birth defects diagnosed?

Health care providers can diagnose some birth defects during pregnancy, using
prenatal testing. That's why it important to get regular prenatal care.

Other birth defects may not be found until after the baby is born. Providers
may find them through newborn screening. Some defects, such as club foot, are
obvious right away. Other times, the health care provider may not discover a
defect until later in life, when the child has symptoms.

### What are the treatments for birth defects?

Children with birth defects often need special care and treatments. Because
the symptoms and problems caused by birth defects vary, the treatments also
vary. Possible treatments may include surgery, medicines, assistive devices,
physical therapy, and speech therapy.

Often, children with birth defects need a variety of services and may need to
see several specialists. The primary health care provider can coordinate the
special care that the child needs.

### Can birth defects be prevented?

Not all birth defects can be prevented. But there are things you can do before
and during pregnancy to increase your chance of having a healthy baby:

  * Start prenatal care as soon as you think you might be pregnant, and see your health care provider regularly during pregnancy
  * Get 400 micrograms (mcg) of folic acid every day. If possible, you should start taking it at least one month before you get pregnant.
  * Don't drink alcohol, smoke, or use "street" drugs
  * Talk to your health care provider about any medicines you are taking or thinking about taking. This includes prescription and over-the-counter medicines, as well as dietary or herbal supplements.
  * Learn how to prevent infections during pregnancy
  * If you have any medical conditions, try to get them under control before you get pregnant

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Start Here

  * Birth Defects ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
  * Birth Defects & Other Health Conditions (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation) Also in Spanish
  * Birth Defects (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
  * Congenital Abnormalities (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish
  * Facts about Birth Defects (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Birth Defects Diagnosis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * How Do Health Care Providers Diagnose Birth Defects? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
  * Karyotype Genetic Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Newborn Screening: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Prenatal Testing: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * TORCH Test (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)

## Prevention and Risk Factors

  * Guidance for Preventing Birth Defects (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
  * Reducing Risks of Birth Defects (American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists)

## Living With

  * When Your Baby Has a Birth Defect (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

  * Fact Sheets (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists)
  * Isotretinoin and Other Retinoids During Pregnancy (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation) Also in Spanish
  * What Is a Neonatologist? (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish
  * When Your Baby's in the NICU (Neonatal Intensive Care Unit) (Nemours Foundation)

## Specifics

  * Ambiguous Genitalia (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
  * Bardet-Biedl Syndrome (Foundation Fighting Blindness)
  * Branchiootorenal Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center)
  * Campomelic dysplasia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center) Also in Spanish
  * Characteristics of CdLS (Cornelia de Lange Syndrome) (Cornelia de Lange Syndrome Foundation)
  * Clubfoot (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
  * Conjoined Twins (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Developmental Dysplasia of the Hip (Nemours Foundation)
  * Esophageal Atresia and Tracheoesophageal Fistula (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
  * Facts about Anophthalmia and Microphthalmia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Eye Institute)
  * Facts about Gastroschisis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
  * Facts about Hypospadias (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
  * Facts about Omphalocele (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
  * Facts about Upper and Lower Limb Reduction Defects (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
  * Genital and Urinary Tract Defects (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation) Also in Spanish
  * Hirschsprung Disease (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
  * Hirschsprung Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
  * Klippel-Feil Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
  * Moebius Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
  * Supernumerary Digit (Logical Images)
  * Undescended Testicles (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
  * What Are the Types of Birth Defects? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Genetics

  * Genetics Home Reference: DOORS syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: heterotaxy syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Statistics and Research

  * Birth Defects Data and Statistics (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Birth Defects Research and Tracking (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * FastStats: Birth Defects or Congenital Anomalies (National Center for Health Statistics)
  * National Birth Defects Prevention Study (NBDPS) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Congenital Abnormalities ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Fontan with lateral tunnel is associated with improved survival compared with...
  * Article: Evolution of the Norwood operation outcomes in patients with late presentation.
  * Article: Correlations between ISL1 rs1017 polymorphism and congenital heart disease risk: A...
  * Birth Defects -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

  * Talking Glossary of Genetic Terms ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Human Genome Research Institute) Also in Spanish

## Find an Expert

  * Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
  * March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation Also in Spanish
  * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

  * Intersex (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Birth Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthDefect.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Acrodysostosis
  * Alpha fetoprotein
  * Ambiguous genitalia
  * Amniotic constriction bands
  * Annular pancreas
  * Clubfoot
  * Clubfoot repair
  * Clubfoot repair - slideshow
  * Developmental disorders of the female reproductive tract
  * Diaphragmatic hernia

  * Diaphragmatic hernia repair - slideshow
  * Diaphragmatic hernia repair - congenital
  * Duodenal atresia
  * Fusion of the ear bones
  * Gastroschisis repair
  * Gastroschisis repair - slideshow
  * Hirschsprung disease
  * Hypospadias
  * Hypospadias repair
  * Hypospadias repair - slideshow
  * Hypospadias repair - discharge
  * Imperforate anus
  * Imperforate anus repair
  * Imperforate anus repair - slideshow
  * Intersex
  * Meckel's diverticulectomy
  * Meckel's diverticulectomy - slideshow
  * Meckel's diverticulum
  * Omphalocele
  * Omphalocele repair
  * Omphalocele repair - slideshow
  * Pinna abnormalities and low-set ears
  * Polyhydramnios
  * Prune belly syndrome
  * Quadruple screen test
  * Trisomy 13
  * Trisomy 18

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

  * Brain Malformations
  * Chiari Malformation
  * Cleft Lip and Palate
  * Congenital Heart Defects
  * Craniofacial Abnormalities
  * Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders
  * Fetal Health and Development
  * Genetic Brain Disorders
  * Genetic Disorders
  * Genetic Testing
  * Neural Tube Defects
  * Prenatal Testing

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Birth Defects is the Eunice
Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 27 December 2019 Topic last reviewed: 4 June 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

