Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000085.htm    
                                Description: Low blood sugar is a condition that occurs when your blood sugar (glucose) is lower than normal. Low blood sugar may occur in people with diabetes who are taking insulin or certain other medicines to control    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Low blood sugar - self-care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000085.htm

# Low blood sugar - self-care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Low blood sugar is a condition that occurs when your blood sugar (glucose) is
lower than normal. Low blood sugar may occur in people with diabetes who are
taking insulin or certain other medicines to control their diabetes. Low blood
sugar can cause dangerous symptoms. Learn how to recognize the symptoms of low
blood sugar and how to prevent them.

## What is Low Blood Sugar?

Low blood sugar is called hypoglycemia. A blood sugar level below 70 mg/dL
(3.9 mmol/L) is low and can harm you. A blood sugar level below 54 mg/dL (3.0
mmol/L) is a cause for immediate action.

You are at risk for low blood sugar if you have diabetes and are taking any of
the following diabetes medicines:

    * Insulin
    * Glyburide (Micronase), glipizide (Glucotrol), glimepiride (Amaryl), repaglinide (Prandin), or nateglinide (Starlix)
    * Chlorpropamide (Diabinese), tolazamide (Tolinase), acetohexamide (Dymelor), or tolbutamide (Orinase) 

You are also at increased risk of having low blood sugar if you have had
previous low blood sugar levels.

## Recognizing Low Blood Sugar

Know how to tell when your blood sugar is getting low. Symptoms include:

    * Weakness or feeling tired
    * Shaking
    * Sweating
    * Headache
    * Hunger
    * Feeling uneasy, nervous, or anxious
    * Feeling cranky
    * Trouble thinking clearly
    * Double or blurry vision
    * Fast or pounding heartbeat

Sometimes your blood sugar may be too low even if you do not have symptoms. If
it gets too low, you may:

    * Faint
    * Have a seizure
    * Go into a coma

Some people who have had diabetes for a long time stop being able to sense low
blood sugar. This is called hypoglycemic unawareness. Ask your health care
provider if wearing a continuous glucose monitor and sensor can help you
detect when your blood sugar is getting too low in order to help prevent
symptoms.

## Check Your Blood Sugar Often

Talk with your provider about when you should check your blood sugar every
day. People who have low blood sugar need to check their blood sugar more
often.

The most common causes of low blood sugar are:

    * Taking your insulin or diabetes medicine at the wrong time
    * Taking too much insulin or diabetes medicine
    * Not eating enough during meals or snacks after you have taken insulin or diabetes medicine
    * Skipping meals
    * Waiting too long after taking your medicine to eat your meals
    * Exercising a lot or at a time that is unusual for you
    * Not checking your blood sugar or not adjusting your insulin dose before exercising
    * Drinking alcohol 

## Preventing Low Blood Sugar

Preventing low blood sugar is better than having to treat it. Always have a
source of fast-acting sugar with you.

    * When you exercise, check your blood sugar levels. Make sure you have snacks with you.
    * Talk to your provider about reducing insulin doses on days that you exercise.
    * Ask your provider if you need a bedtime snack to prevent low blood sugar overnight. Protein snacks may be best.

DO NOT drink alcohol without eating food. Women should limit alcohol to 1
drink a day and men should limit alcohol to 2 drinks a day. Family and friends
should know how to help. They should know:

    * The symptoms of low blood sugar and how to tell if you have them.
    * How much and what kind of food they should give you.
    * When to call for emergency help.
    * How to inject glucagon, a hormone that increases your blood sugar. Your doctor or nurse will tell you when to use this medicine. 

If you have diabetes, always wear a medical alert bracelet or necklace. This
helps emergency medical workers know you have diabetes.

## When Your Blood Sugar Gets Low

Check your blood sugar whenever you have symptoms of low blood sugar. If your
blood sugar is below 70 mg/dL, treat yourself right away.

    1. Eat something that has about 15 grams (g) of carbohydrates. Examples are 3 glucose tablets, one half cup (4 ounces or 237 mL) of fruit juice or regular, non-diet soda, 5 or 6 hard candies, 1 tablespoon (tbsp) or 15 mL of sugar, plain or dissolved in water, or 1 tbsp (15 mL) of honey or syrup.
    2. Wait about 15 minutes before eating any more. Be careful not to eat too much. This can cause high blood sugar and weight gain.
    3. Check your blood sugar again.
    4. If you do not feel better in 15 minutes and your blood sugar is still lower than 70 mg/dL (3.9 mmol/L), eat something with 15 g of carbohydrate again.

You may need to eat a snack with carbohydrates and protein if your blood sugar
is in a safer range -- over 70 mg/dL (3.9 mmol/L) -- and your next meal is
more than an hour away.

Ask your provider how to manage this situation. If these steps for raising
your blood sugar do not work, call your doctor right away.

## Talk to Your Doctor or Nurse

If you use insulin and your blood sugar is frequently or consistently low, ask
your doctor or nurse if you:

    * Are injecting your insulin the right way
    * Need a different type of needle
    * Should change how much insulin you take
    * Should change the kind of insulin you take 

DO NOT make any changes without talking to your doctor or nurse first.

Sometimes hypoglycemia can be due to taking the wrong medicines. Check your
medicines with your pharmacist.

## When to Call the Doctor

If signs of low blood sugar DO NOT improve after you have eaten a snack that
contains sugar, have someone drive you to the emergency room or call your
local emergency number (such as 911). DO NOT drive when your blood sugar is
low.

Get medical help right away for a person with low blood sugar if the person is
not alert or cannot be awakened.

## Alternative Names

Hypoglycemia - self care; Low blood glucose - self care

## Images

    * ![Medical alert bracelet](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22869t.jpg)Medical alert bracelet
    * ![Glucose test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18029t.jpg)Glucose test

## References

American Diabetes Association. 6. Glycemic targets: standards of medical care
in diabetes-2018. _Diabetes Care_. 2018;41(Suppl 1):S55-S64. PMID: 29222377
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29222377.

Davis SN, Lamos EM, Younk LM. Hypoglycemia and hypoglycemic syndromes. In:
Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and
Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 47.

## Read More

    * Type 1 diabetes
    * Type 2 diabetes

## Patient Instructions

    * ACE inhibitors
    * Diabetes and exercise 
    * Diabetes eye care
    * Diabetes - foot ulcers
    * Diabetes - keeping active 
    * Diabetes - preventing heart attack and stroke
    * Diabetes - taking care of your feet
    * Diabetes tests and checkups
    * Diabetes - when you are sick
    * Managing your blood sugar
    * Type 2 diabetes - what to ask your doctor

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, Associate Professor of Medicine, Division of
Metabolism, Endocrinology & Nutrition, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Diabetes
    * Diabetes Medicines
    * Diabetes Type 1
    * Hypoglycemia

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

