Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003585.htm    
                                Description: A ketone urine test measures the amount of ketones in the urine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ketones urine test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003585.htm

# Ketones urine test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A ketone urine test measures the amount of ketones in the urine.

## How the Test is Performed

Urine ketones are usually measured as a "spot test." This is available in a
test kit that you can buy at a drug store. The kit contains dipsticks coated
with chemicals that react with ketone bodies. A dipstick is dipped in the
urine sample. A color change indicates the presence of ketones.

This article describes the ketone urine test that involves sending collected
urine to a lab.

A clean-catch urine sample is needed. The clean-catch method is used to
prevent germs from the penis or vagina from getting into a urine sample. To
collect your urine, the health care provider may give you a special clean-
catch kit that contains a cleansing solution and sterile wipes. Follow
instructions exactly.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You may have to follow a special diet. Your provider may tell you to
temporarily stop taking certain medicines that may affect the test.

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal urination. There is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

Ketone testing is most often done if you have type 1 diabetes and:

    * Your blood sugar is higher than 240 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL)
    * Nausea or vomiting occur
    * Pain in the abdomen 

Ketone testing may also be done if:

    * You have an illness such as pneumonia, heart attack, or stroke
    * Nausea or vomiting that does not go away
    * You are pregnant 

## Normal Results

A negative test result is normal.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result means you have ketones in your urine. The results are
usually listed as small, moderate, or large as follows:

    * Small: <20 mg/dL
    * Moderate: 30 to 40 mg/dL
    * Large: >80 mg/dL 

Ketones build up when the body needs to break down fats and fatty acids to use
as fuel. This is most likely to occur when the body does not get enough sugar
or carbohydrates.

This may be due to diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA). DKA is a life-threatening
problem that affects people with diabetes. It occurs when the body cannot use
sugar (glucose) as a fuel source because there is no insulin or not enough
insulin. Fat is used for fuel instead.

An abnormal result may also be due to:

    * Fasting or starvation: such as with anorexia (an eating disorder)
    * High protein or low carbohydrate diet
    * Vomiting over a long period (such as during early pregnancy)
    * Acute or severe illnesses, such as sepsis or burns
    * High fevers
    * The thyroid gland making too much thyroid hormone (hyperthyroidism)
    * Nursing a baby, if the mother does not eat and drink enough 

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Alternative Names

Ketone bodies - urine; Urine ketones; Ketoacidosis - urine ketones test;
Diabetic ketoacidosis - urine ketones test

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Ketone, semiquantitative - urine. In: Chernecky CC,
Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:694.

Sacks DB. Diabetes mellitus. In: Tifai N, ed. _Tietz Textbook of Clinical
Chemistry and Molecular Diagnostics_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 57.

## Review Date 11/20/2017

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Diabetes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Diabetes_thumb.jpg)Diabetes _Read
more_

![Diabetes
Complications](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesComplications_thumb.jpg)Diabetes
Complications _Read more_

![Diabetes Type
1](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesType1_thumb.jpg)Diabetes Type 1
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

