Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000391.htm    
                                Description: Lactic acidosis refers to lactic acid build up in the bloodstream. Lactic acid is produced when oxygen levels, become low in cells within the areas of the body where metabolism takes place.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lactic acidosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000391.htm

# Lactic acidosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Lactic acidosis refers to lactic acid build up in the bloodstream. Lactic acid
is produced when oxygen levels, become low in cells within the areas of the
body where metabolism takes place.

## Causes

The most common cause of lactic acidosis is severe medical illness in which
blood pressure is low and too little oxygen is reaching the bodyâs tissues.
Intense exercise or convulsions can cause temporary cause lactic acidosis.
Certain diseases can also cause the condition including:

    * AIDS
    * Alcoholism
    * Cancer
    * Cirrhosis
    * Cyanide poisoning
    * Kidney failure
    * Respiratory failure
    * Sepsis (severe infection)

Some medicines can rarely cause lactic acidosis:

    * Certain inhalers used to treat asthma or COPD
    * Epinephrine
    * An antibiotic called linezolid
    * Metformin, used to treat diabetes (most often when overdosed)
    * One type of medicine used to treat HIV infection
    * Propofol

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Nausea
    * Vomiting
    * Weakness 

## Exams and Tests

Tests may include a blood test to check lactate and electrolyte levels.

## Treatment

The main treatment for lactic acidosis is to correct the medical problem that
causes the condition.

## References

Palmer BF. Metabolic acidosis. In: Feehally J, Floege J, Tonelli, Johnson RJ,
eds. _Comprehensive Clinical Nephrology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 12.

Seifter JL. Acid-base disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 118.

Strayer RJ. Acid-base disorders. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
et al, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice._ 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2018:chap 116.

## Review Date 10/12/2018

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cancer--Living with Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cancer-
LivingwithCancer_thumb.jpg)Cancer--Living with Cancer _Read more_

![Diabetes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Diabetes_thumb.jpg)Diabetes _Read
more_

![Diabetes
Medicines](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabeticMedicine_thumb.jpg)Diabetes
Medicines _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

