Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003581.htm    
                                Description: &#10;&#10;The glucose urine test measures the amount of sugar (glucose) in a urine sample. The presence of glucose in the urine is called glycosuria or glucosuria.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Glucose urine test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003581.htm

# Glucose urine test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The glucose urine test measures the amount of sugar (glucose) in a urine
sample. The presence of glucose in the urine is called glycosuria or
glucosuria.

Glucose level can also be measured using a blood test or a cerebrospinal fluid
test.  

## How the Test is Performed

After you provide a urine sample, it is tested right away. The health care
provider uses a dipstick made with a color-sensitive pad. The color the
dipstick changes to tells the provider the level of glucose in your urine.

If needed,Â your provider may ask you to collect your urine at home over 24
hours. Your provider will tell you how to do this. Follow instructions exactly
so that the results are accurate.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Certain medicines can change the result of this test. Before the test, tell
your provider which medicines you are taking. DO NOT stop taking any medicine
before talking to your provider.

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal urination. There is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test was commonly used to test for and monitor diabetes in the past. Now,
blood tests to measure glucose level in the blood are easy to do and are used
instead of the glucose urine test.

The glucose urine test may be ordered when the doctor suspects renal
glycosuria. This is a rare condition in which glucose is released from the
kidneys into the urine, even when the blood glucose level is normal.

## Normal Results

Glucose is not usually found in urine. If it is, further testing is needed.

Normal glucose range in urine: 0Â to 0.8 mmol/l (0Â to 15 mg/dL)

The examples above are common measurements for results of these tests. Normal
value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs use
different measurements or test different samples. Talk to yourÂ health care
providerÂ about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Higher than normal levels of glucose may occur with:

    * Diabetes: Small increases in urine glucose levels after a large meal are not always a cause for concern. Â Â Â 
    * Pregnancy: Up to half of women have glucose in their urine at someÂ time during pregnancy. Glucose in the urine may mean that a woman has gestational diabetes.
    * Renal glycosuria: A rare condition in which glucose is released from the kidneys into the urine, even when blood glucose levelsÂ are normal. 

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Alternative Names

Urine sugar test; Urine glucose test; Glucosuria test; Glycosuria test

## Images

    * ![Male urinary system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10022t.jpg)Male urinary system

## References

Riley RS, McPherson RA. Basic examination of urine. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 28.

Sacks DB. Carbohydrates. In: Rifai N, ed. _Tietz Textbook of Clinical
Chemistry and Molecular Diagnostics_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier;
2018:chap 33.

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood Sugar](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodSugar_thumb.jpg)Blood Sugar
_Read more_

![Diabetes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Diabetes_thumb.jpg)Diabetes _Read
more_

![Diabetes in Children and
Teens](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesinChildrenandTeens_thumb.jpg)Diabetes
in Children and Teens _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

