Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/ketones-in-urine/    
                                Description: Ketones in urine may indicate a problem with the body&#39;s ability to burn energy. Diabetics are at a higher risk for developing urine ketones. Learn about a test for ketones in urine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Ketones in Urine

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/ketones-in-urine/

# Ketones in Urine

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a ketones in urine test?

The test measures ketone levels in your urine. Normally, your body burns
glucose (sugar) for energy. If your cells don't get enough glucose, your body
burns fat for energy instead. This produces a substance called ketones, which
can show up in your blood and urine. High ketone levels in urine may indicate
diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA), a complication of diabetes that can lead to a
coma or even death. A ketones in urine test can prompt you to get treatment
before a medical emergency occurs.

Other names: ketones urine test, ketone test, urine ketones, ketone bodies

## What is it used for?

The test is often used to help monitor people at a higher risk of developing
ketones. These include people with type 1 or type 2 diabetes. If you have
diabetes, ketones in urine can mean that you are not getting enough insulin.
If you don't have diabetes, you may still be at risk for developing ketones if
you:

    * Experience chronic vomiting and/or diarrhea
    * Have a digestive disorder
    * Participate in strenuous exercise
    * Are on a very low-carbohydrate diet
    * Have an eating disorder
    * Are pregnant

## Why do I need a ketones in urine test?

Your health care provider may order a ketones in urine test if you have
diabetes or other risk factors for developing ketones. You may also need this
test if you have symptoms of ketoacidosis. These include:

    * Nausea or vomiting
    * Abdominal pain
    * Confusion
    * Trouble breathing
    * Feeling extremely sleepy

People with type 1 diabetes are at a higher risk for ketoacidosis.

## What happens during a ketones in urine test?

A ketones in urine test can be done in the home as well as in a lab. If in a
lab, you will be given instructions to provide a "clean catch" sample. The
clean catch method generally includes the following steps:

    1. Wash your hands.
    2. Clean your genital area with a cleansing pad. Men should wipe the tip of their penis. Women should open their labia and clean from front to back.
    3. Start to urinate into the toilet.
    4. Move the collection container under your urine stream.
    5. Collect at least an ounce or two of urine into the container, which should have markings to indicate the amount.
    6. Finish urinating into the toilet.
    7. Return the sample container as instructed by your health care provider.

If you do the test at home, follow the instructions that are in your test kit.
Your kit will include a package of strips for testing. You will either be
instructed to provide a clean catch sample in a container as described above
or to put the test strip directly in the stream of your urine. Talk to your
health care provider about specific instructions.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You may have to fast (not eat or drink) for a certain period of time before
taking a ketones in urine test. Ask your health care provider if you need to
fast or do any other type of preparation before your test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is no known risk to having a ketones in urine test.

## What do the results mean?

Your test results may be a specific number or listed as a "small," "moderate,"
or "large" amount of ketones. Normal results can vary, depending on your on
your diet, activity level, and other factors. Because high ketone levels can
be dangerous, be sure to talk to your health care provider about what is
normal for you and what your results mean.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a ketones in urine test?

Ketone test kits are available at most pharmacies without a prescription. If
you are planning to test for ketones at home, ask your health care provider
for recommendations on which kit would be best for you. At-home urine tests
are easy to perform and can provide accurate results as long as you carefully
follow all instructions.

Some people use at-home kits to test for ketones if they are on a ketogenic or
"keto" diet. A keto diet is type of weight-loss plan that causes a healthy
person's body to make ketones. Be sure to talk to your health care provider
before going on a keto diet.

## References

    1. American Diabetes Association [Internet]. Arlington (VA): American Diabetes Association; c1995â2017. DKA (Ketoacidosis) & Ketones; [updated 2015 Mar 18; cited 2017 Mar 19]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: _http://www.diabetes.org/living-with-diabetes/complications/ketoacidosis-dka.html?referrer_
    2. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Ketones: Urine; p. 351.
    3. Joslin Diabetes Center [Internet]. Boston: Joslin Diabetes Center, Harvard Medical School; c2017. Ketone Testing: What You Need to Know; [cited 2017 Mar 19]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: _http://www.joslin.org/info/ketone_testing_what_you_need_to_know.html_
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Urinalysis: Three Types of Examinations; [cited 2017 Mar 19]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: _https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/urinalysis/ui-exams/start/1#ketones_
    5. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2017. Urinalysis; [cited 2017 Mar 19]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: _https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/kidney-and-urinary-tract-disorders/diagnosis-of-kidney-and-urinary-tract-disorders/urinalysis_
    6. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Managing Diabetes; 2016 Nov [cited 2017 Mar 19]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: _https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/diabetes/overview/managing-diabetes_
    7. Paoli A. Ketogenic Diet for Obesity: Friend or Foe? _Int J Environ Res Public Health_ [Internet]. 2014 Feb 19 [cited 2019 Feb 1]; 11(2): 2092-2107. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3945587
    8. Saint Francis Health System [Internet]. Tulsa (OK): Saint Francis Health System; c2016. Patient Information: Collecting a Clean Catch Urine Sample; [cited 2017 Apr 13]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: _https://www.saintfrancis.com/lab/Documents/Collecting%20a%20Clean%20Catch%20Urine.pdf_
    9. Scribd [Internet]. Scribd; c2018. Ketosis: What is ketosis? [updated 2017 Mar 21;[ cited 2019 Feb 1]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.scribd.com/document/368713988/Ketogenic-Diet
    10. The Johns Hopkins Lupus Center [Internet]. Johns Hopkins Medicine; c2017. Urinalysis; [cited 2017 Mar 19]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: _https://www.hopkinslupus.org/lupus-tests/screening-laboratory-tests/urinalysis/_
    11. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida; c2019. Ketones Â urine test: Overview; [updated 2019 Feb 1; cited 2019 Feb 1]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/ketones-urine-test
    12. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: Ketone Bodies (Urine); [cited 2017 Mar 19]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: _https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167 &contentid;=ketone_bodies_urine_

## Related Health Topics

    * Diabetes
    * Diabetes Complications
    * Diabetes in Children and Teens
    * Diabetes Type 1
    * Diabetes Type 2
    * Hyperglycemia
    * Urinalysis

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Blood Glucose Test
    * Glucose in Urine Test
    * Hemoglobin A1C (HbA1c) Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Ketones in Blood

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 March 2020 Page last reviewed: 25 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

