Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000331.htm    
                                Description: Immunizations (vaccines or vaccinations) help protect you from some diseases. When you have diabetes, you    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Immunizations for people with diabetes

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000331.htm

# Immunizations for people with diabetes

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Immunizations (vaccines or vaccinations) help protect you from some diseases.
When you have diabetes, you're more likely to get infections because your
immune system doesn't work as well. Vaccines can prevent illnesses that can be
very serious and can put you in the hospital.

Vaccines have an inactive, small, amount of a certain germ. This germ is often
a virus or bacteria. After you get a vaccine, your body learns to attack the
virus or bacteria if you get it again. This means you have less of a chance of
getting sick than if you did not get the vaccine. Or you may just have a
milder illness.

Below are some of the vaccines you need to know about. Ask your health care
provider which are right for you.

## Pneumococcal Vaccine

Pneumococcal vaccine can help protect you from serious infections due to the
pneumococcal bacteria. These infections include:

    * In the blood (bacteremia)
    * Of the covering of the brain (meningitis)
    * In the lungs (pneumonia)

You need at least one shot. A second shot may be needed if you had the first
shot more than 5 years ago and you are now over age 65 years.

Most people have no or only minor side effects from the vaccine. You may have
some pain and redness at the site where you get the shot.

This vaccine has a very small chance of a serious reaction.

## Flu Shot

The flu (influenza) vaccine helps protect you from the flu. Each year, the
type of flu virus that makes people sick is different. This is why you should
get a flu shot every year. The best time to get the shot is in the early fall,
so that you'll be protected all flu season, which usually lasts mid-fall until
the following spring.

People with diabetes who are 6 months or older should get the flu vaccine each
year.

The vaccine is given as a shot (injection). Flu shots can be given to healthy
people 6 months or older. One type of shot is injected into a muscle (often
the upper arm muscle). Another type is injected just under the skin. Your
provider can tell you which shot is right for you.

In general, you should not get a flu shot if you:

    * Have a severe allergy to chickens or egg protein
    * Have a fever or illness that is more than "just a cold"
    * Had a bad reaction to a previous flu vaccine

This vaccine has a very small chance of a serious reaction.

## Hepatitis B Vaccine

The hepatitis B vaccine helps protect you from getting a liver infection due
to the hepatitis B virus. People with diabetes ages 19 through 59 years should
get the vaccine. Your doctor can tell you if this vaccine is right for you.

## Other Important Vaccines

Other vaccines that you may need are:

    * Hepatitis A
    * Tdap (tetanus, diphtheria and pertussis)
    * MMR (measles, mumps, rubella)
    * Herpes zoster (shingles)
    * Polio

## References

American Diabetes Association. 4. Lifestyle management: standards of medical
care in diabetes-2018. _Diabetes Care_. 2018;41(Suppl 1):S38-S50. PMID:
29222375 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/ 29222375.

Kim DK, Riley LE, Hunter P. Advisory committee on immunization practices
recommended immunization schedule for adults aged 19 years or older - United
States, 2018. _MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep_. 2018;67(5):158-160. PMID: 29420462
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29420462.

Robinson CL, Romero JR, Kempe A, Pellegrini C, Szilagyi P. Advisory committee
on immunization practices recommended immunization schedule for children and
adolescents aged 18 years or younger - United States, 2018. _MMWR Morb Mortal
Wkly Rep_. 2018;67(5):156-167. PMID: 29420458
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29420458.

## Review Date 8/19/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Diabetes
    * Immunization

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

