Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000083.htm    
                                Description: Exercise is an important part of managing your diabetes. If you are obese or overweight, exercise can help you manage your weight.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diabetes and exercise

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000083.htm

# Diabetes and exercise

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Exercise is an important part of managing your diabetes. If you are obese or
overweight, exercise can help you manage your weight.

## Exercise will Help Your Diabetes

Exercise can help lower your blood sugar without medicines. It reduces your
risk of heart disease. Exercise can also lessen the symptoms of depression and
reduce stress.

But be patient. It may take several months of regular exercising before you
see changes in your health.

## Talk to Your Doctor First

Your health care provider should make sure your exercise program is safe for
you. It is for most people with diabetes. Your provider may ask about
symptoms, such as shortness of breath, chest pain, or leg pain that you may
get when you walk upstairs or up a hill. In rare cases, your provider will
order tests to make sure that you can exercise safely without damaging your
heart.

If you take medicines that lower your blood sugar, exercise can make your
blood sugar go too low. Talk to your provider or nurse about how to take your
medicines when you exercise or how to adjust the doses to prevent low blood
sugars.

Some types of vigorous exercise can make your eyes worse if you already have
diabetic eye disease. Get an eye exam before starting a new exercise program.

After you start your exercise program, call your provider if you have any of
the following:

    * Feel faint, have chest pain, or feel short of breath when you exercise
    * Feel pain or numbness in your feet. Also call if you have sores or blisters on your feet
    * Your blood sugar gets too low or too high during or after exercising 

## Getting Started

Start with walking. If you are out of shape, start by walking for 5 to 10
minutes a day.

Try to set a goal of fast walking. You should do this for 30 to 45 minutes, at
least 5 days a week. In order to lose weight, the amount of exercise may need
to be greater. So do more if you can. Swimming or exercise classes are also
good.

Wear a bracelet or necklace that says you have diabetes. Tell coaches and
exercise partners that you have diabetes. Always have fast-acting sources of
sugar with you, such as juice or hard candy. Carry a cell phone with emergency
phone numbers with you, as well.

Drink plenty of water. Do this before, during, and after exercising. Try to
exercise at the same time of day, for the same amount of time, and at the same
level. This will make your blood sugar easier to control. If your schedule is
less regular, exercising at different times of the day is still better than
not exercising at all.

Try to avoid sitting for more than 30 minutes at a time. Get up and stretch.
Walk or do some quick exercises like lunges, squats, or wall push-ups.

## Your Blood Sugar and Exercise

Check your blood sugar before you exercise. Also, check it during exercise if
you are working out for more than 45 minutes.

Check your blood sugar again right after exercise, and later on. Exercise can
cause your blood sugar to drop for up to 12 hours after you are done.

If you use insulin, ask your provider when and what you should eat before you
exercise. Also, find out how to adjust your dose when you exercise.

DO NOT inject insulin in a part of your body that you are exercising, such as
the shoulders or thighs.

Keep a snack nearby that can raise your blood sugar quickly. Examples are:

    * Five or six small hard candies
    * One tablespoon (tbsp), or 15 grams, of sugar, plain or dissolved in water
    * One tbsp, or 15 milliliters (mL) of honey or syrup
    * Three or four glucose tablets
    * One half of a 12-ounce can (177 mL) of regular, non-diet sodaÂ or sports drink
    * One half cup (4 ounces or 125 mL) of fruit juice

Have a larger snack if you will be exercising more than usual. You can also
have more frequent snacks. You may need to adjust your medicine if you are
planning unusual exercise.

If exercise frequently causes your blood sugar to be low, talk with your
provider. You may need to lower the dose of your medicine.

## Your Feet and Exercise

Always check your feet and shoes for any problems before and after exercise.
You might not feel pain in your feet because of your diabetes. You may not
notice a sore or blister on your foot. Call your provider if you notice any
changes on your feet. Small problems can become serious if they go untreated.

Wear socks that keep moisture away from your feet. Also, wear comfortable,
well-fitting shoes.

## Alternative Names

Exercise - diabetes; Exercise - type 1 diabetes; Exercise - type 2 diabetes

## Images

    * ![Diabetes and exercise](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19811t.jpg)Diabetes and exercise
    * ![Medical alert bracelet](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22869t.jpg)Medical alert bracelet

## References

American Diabetes Association. 4. Lifestyle management: standards of medical
care in diabetes-2018. _Diabetes Care_. 2018;41(Suppl 1):S38-S50. PMID:
29222375 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29222375.

Eckel RH, Jakicic JM, Ard JD, et al. 2013 AHA/ACC guideline on lifestyle
management to reduce cardiovascular risk: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on practice guidelines.
_Circulation_. 2014;129(25 Suppl 2):S76-S99. PMID: 24222015
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24222015.

Kirk SE. The diabetic athlete. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee &
Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 21.

## Read More

    * Type 1 diabetes
    * Type 2 diabetes

## Patient Instructions

    * ACE inhibitors
    * Diabetes eye care
    * Diabetes - foot ulcers
    * Diabetes - keeping active 
    * Diabetes - preventing heart attack and stroke
    * Diabetes - taking care of your feet
    * Diabetes tests and checkups
    * Diabetes - when you are sick
    * Low blood sugar - self-care
    * Managing your blood sugar
    * Type 2 diabetes - what to ask your doctor

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, Associate Professor of Medicine, Division of
Metabolism, Endocrinology & Nutrition, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Diabetes
    * Diabetes Type 1
    * Diabetes in Children and Teens

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

