Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/blood-glucose-test/    
                                Description: A blood glucose test measures the amount of glucose in your blood. It may be used to help diagnose or monitor diabetes. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Blood Glucose Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/blood-glucose-test/

# Blood Glucose Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a blood glucose test?

A blood glucose test measures the glucose levels in your blood. Glucose is a
type of sugar. It is your body's main source of energy. A hormone called
insulin helps move glucose from your bloodstream into your cells. Too much or
too little glucose in the blood can be a sign of a serious medical condition.
High blood glucose levels (hyperglycemia) may be a sign of diabetes, a
disorder that can cause heart disease, blindness, kidney failure and other
complications. Low blood glucose levels (hypoglycemia) can also lead to major
health problems, including brain damage, if not treated.

Other names: blood sugar, self-monitoring of blood glucose (SMBG), fasting
plasma glucose (FPG), fasting blood sugar (FBS), fasting blood glucose (FBG),
glucose challenge test, oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT)

## What is it used for?

A blood glucose test is used to find out if your blood sugar levels are in the
healthy range. It is often used to help diagnose and monitor diabetes.

## Why do I need a blood glucose test?

Your health care provider may order a blood glucose test if you have symptoms
of high glucose levels (hyperglycemia) or low glucose levels (hypoglycemia).

Symptoms of high blood glucose levels include:

    * Increased thirst
    * More frequent urination
    * Blurred vision
    * Fatigue
    * Wounds that are slow to heal

Symptoms of low blood glucose levels include:

    * Anxiety
    * Sweating
    * Trembling
    * Hunger
    * Confusion

You may also need a blood glucose test if you have certain risk factors for
diabetes. These include:

    * Being overweight
    * Lack of exercise
    * Family member with diabetes
    * High blood pressure
    * Heart disease

If you are pregnant, you will likely get a blood glucose test between the 24th
and 28th week of your pregnancy to check for gestational diabetes. Gestational
diabetes is a form of diabetes that happens only during pregnancy.

## What happens during a blood glucose test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. For some types of glucose blood tests, you will
need to drink a sugary drink before your blood is drawn.

If you have diabetes, your health care provider may recommend a kit to monitor
your blood sugar at home. Most kits include a device to prick your finger
(lancet). You will use this to collect a drop of blood for testing. There are
some newer kits available that donât require pricking your finger. For more
information on at-home test kits, talk to your health care provider.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You will probably need to fast (not eat or drink) for eight hours before the
test. If you are pregnant and are being checked for gestational diabetes:

    * You will drink a sugary liquid one hour before your blood is drawn.
    * You won't need to fast for this test.
    * If your results show higher than normal blood glucose levels, you may need another test, which requires fasting.

Talk to your health provider about specific preparations needed for your
glucose test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

If your results show higher than normal glucose levels, it may mean you have
or are at risk for getting diabetes. High glucose levels may also be a sign
of:

    * Kidney disease
    * Hyperthyroidism
    * Pancreatitis
    * Pancreatic cancer

If your results show lower than normal glucose levels, it may be a sign of:

    * Hypothyroidism
    * Too much insulin or other diabetes medicine
    * Liver disease

If your glucose results are not normal, it doesn't necessarily mean you have a
medical condition needing treatment. High stress and certain medicines can
affect glucose levels. To learn what your results mean, talk to your health
care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I should know about a blood glucose test?

Many people with diabetes need to check blood glucose levels every day. If you
have diabetes, be sure to talk to your health care provider about the best
ways to manage your disease.

## References

    1. American Diabetes Association [Internet]. Arlington (VA): American Diabetes Association; c1995â2017. Checking Your Blood Glucose [cited 2017 Jul 21]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: http://www.diabetes.org/living-with-diabetes/treatment-and-care/blood-glucose-control/checking-your-blood-glucose.html
    2. American Diabetes Association [Internet]. Arlington (VA): American Diabetes Association; c1995â2017. Gestational Diabetes [cited 2017 Jul 21]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://www.diabetes.org/diabetes-basics/gestational
    3. American Pregnancy Association [Internet]. Irving (TX): American Pregnancy Association; c2017. Glucose Tolerance Test [updated 2016 Sep 2; cited 2017 Jul 21]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: http://americanpregnancy.org/prenatal-testing/glucose-tolerence-test/
    4. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Basics About Diabetes [updated 2015 Mar 31; cited 2017 Jul 21]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/diabetes/basics/diabetes.html
    5. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Glucose Monitoring; 2017 Jun [cited 2017 Jul 21]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/diabetes/diabetesatwork/pdfs/bloodglucosemonitoring.pdf
    6. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) regarding Assisted Blood Glucose Monitoring and Insulin Administration [updated 2016 Aug 19; cited 2017 Jul 21]; [about 9 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/injectionsafety/providers/blood-glucose-monitoring_faqs.html
    7. FDA: US Food and Drug Administration [Internet]. Silver Spring (MD): US Department of Health and Human Services; FDA expands indication for continuous glucose monitoring system, first to replace fingerstick testing for diabetes treatment decisions; 2016 Dec 20 [cited 2019 Jun 5]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.fda.gov/news-events/press-announcements/fda-expands-indication-continuous-glucose-monitoring-system-first-replace-fingerstick-testing
    8. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Glucose Monitoring; 317 p.
    9. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Glucose Tests: Common Questions [updated 2017 Jan 6; cited 2017 Jul 21]; [about 5 screens]. Available Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/glucose/tab/faq/
    10. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Glucose Tests: The Test [updated 2017 Jan 16; cited 2017 Jul 21]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/glucose/tab/test/
    11. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Glucose Tests: The Test Sample [updated 2017 Jan 16; cited 2017 Jul 21]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/glucose/tab/sample/
    12. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2017. Diabetes Mellitus (DM) [cited 2017 Jul 21]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.merckmanuals.com/home/hormonal-and-metabolic-disorders/diabetes-mellitus-dm-and-disorders-of-blood-sugar-metabolism/diabetes-mellitus-dm
    13. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2017. Hypoglycemia (Low Blood Sugar) [cited 2017 Jul 21]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.merckmanuals.com/home/hormonal-and-metabolic-disorders/diabetes-mellitus-dm-and-disorders-of-blood-sugar-metabolism/hypoglycemia
    14. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: glucose [cited 2017 Jul 21]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms?search=glucose
    15. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What Are the Risks of Blood Tests? [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Jul 21]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests#Risk-Factors
    16. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What To Expect with Blood Tests [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Jul 21]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    17. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Continuous Glucose Monitoring; 2017 Jun [cited 2017 Jul 21]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/diabetes/overview/managing-diabetes/continuous-glucose-monitoring
    18. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Diabetes Tests & Diagnosis; 2016 Nov [cited 2017 Jul 21]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/diabetes/overview/tests-diagnosis
    19. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Low Blood Glucose (Hypoglycemia); 2016 Aug [cited 2017 Jul 21]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/diabetes/overview/preventing-problems/low-blood-glucose-hypoglycemia
    20. UCSF Medical Center [Internet]. San Francisco (CA): The Regents of the University of California; c2002â2017. Medical Tests: Glucose Test [cited 2017 Jul 21]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.ucsfhealth.org/tests/003482.html
    21. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: Glucose (Blood) [cited 2017 Jul 21]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid;=glucose_blood

## Related Health Topics

    * Diabetes in Children and Teens
    * Diabetes Type 1
    * Diabetes Type 2
    * Hyperglycemia
    * Hypoglycemia
    * Prenatal Testing

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Fasting for a Blood Test
    * Glucose in Urine Test
    * Hemoglobin A1C (HbA1c) Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Insulin in Blood

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 March 2020 Page last reviewed: 24 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

