Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003375.htm    
                                Description: The anti-insulin antibody test checks to see if your body has produced antibodies against insulin.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Anti-insulin antibody test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003375.htm

# Anti-insulin antibody test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The anti-insulin antibody test checks to see if your body has produced
antibodies against insulin.

Antibodies are proteins the body produces to protect itself when it detects
anything "foreign," such as a virus or transplanted organ.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is necessary.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test may be performed if:

    * You have or are at risk for type 1 diabetes
    * You appear to have an allergic response to insulin
    * Insulin no longer seems to control your diabetes
    * Your blood sugar level varies a lot, with both high and low numbers that can't be explained

## Normal Results

Normally, there are no antibodies against insulin in your blood if you have
not been treated with insulin for diabetes.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your health care
provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

If you have IgG and IgM antibodies against insulin, your body reacts as if the
insulin in your body is a foreign protein that needs to be removed. This may
make insulin less effective, or not effective at all. This is because the
antibody prevents the insulin from working the right way in your cells. As a
result, your blood sugar can be unusually high. Many people who are on insulin
have detectable antibodies, but these antibodies do not cause symptoms.

The antibodies can also prolong the effect of insulin by releasing some
insulin long after your meal has been absorbed. This can put you at risk for
low blood sugar.

If the test shows a high level of IgE antibody against insulin, your body has
developed an allergic response to the insulin. This could put you at risk for
skin reactions where you inject insulin. You can also develop more severe
reactions that affect your blood pressure or breathing.

Other medicines, such as antihistamines or low-dose injectable steroids, may
help to lessen the reaction. If reactions have been severe, you may need a
treatment process called desensitization or another treatment to remove the
antibodies from your blood.

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be more difficult than
from others.

Other risks of having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood building up under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Insulin antibodies - serum; Insulin Ab test; Insulin resistance - insulin
antibodies; Diabetes - insulin antibodies

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Atkinson MA. Type 1 diabetes mellitus. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR,
Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 32.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Insulin and insulin antibodies â blood. In:
Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:682-684.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Diabetes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Diabetes_thumb.jpg)Diabetes _Read
more_

![Diabetes Type
1](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesType1_thumb.jpg)Diabetes Type 1
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

