Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003466.htm    
                                Description: The glucose tolerance test is a lab test to check how your body moves sugar from the blood into tissues like muscle and fat. The test is often used to diagnose diabetes.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Glucose tolerance test - non-pregnant

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003466.htm

# Glucose tolerance test - non-pregnant

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The glucose tolerance test is a lab test to check how your body moves sugar
from the blood into tissues like muscle and fat. The test is often used to
diagnose diabetes.

Tests to screen for diabetes during pregnancy are done differently.

## How the Test is Performed

The most common glucose tolerance test is the oral glucose tolerance test
(OGTT).

Before the test begins, a sample of blood will be taken.

You will then be asked to drink a liquid containing a certain amount of
glucose (usually 75 grams). Your blood will be taken again every 30 to 60
minutes after you drink the solution.

The test may take up to 3 hours.

A similar test is the intravenous (IV) glucose tolerance test (IGTT). It is
rarely used, and is never used to diagnose diabetes. In one version of the
IGTT, glucose is injected into your vein for 3 minutes. Blood insulin levels
are measured before the injection, and again at 1 and 3 minutes after the
injection. The timing may vary. This IGTT is almost always used for research
purposes only.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Make sure you eat normally for several days before the test.

DO NOT eat or drink anything for at least 8 hours before the test. You cannot
eat during the test.

Ask your health care provider if any of the medicines you take can affect the
test results.

## How the Test will Feel

Drinking the glucose solution is similar to drinking very sweet soda.

Serious side effects from this test are very uncommon. With the blood test,
some people feel nauseated, sweaty, lightheaded, or may even feel short of
breath or faint after drinking the glucose. Tell your doctor if you have a
history of these symptoms related to blood tests or medical procedures.

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

Glucose is the sugar the body uses for energy. People with untreated diabetes
have high blood glucose levels.

Most often, the first tests used to diagnose diabetes in people who are not
pregnant are:

    * Fasting blood glucose level: diabetes is diagnosed if it is higher than 126 mg/dL (7 mmol/L) on 2 different tests
    * Hemoglobin A1c test: diabetes is diagnosed if the test result is 6.5% or higher 

Glucose tolerance tests are also used to diagnose diabetes. The OGTT is used
to screen for or diagnose diabetes in people with a fasting blood glucose
level that is high, but is not high enough (above 125 mg/dL or 7 mmol/L) to
meet the diagnosis for diabetes.

Abnormal glucose tolerance (blood sugar goes too high during the glucose
challenge) is an earlier sign of diabetes than an abnormal fasting glucose.

## Normal Results

Normal blood values for a 75 gram OGTT used to check for type 2 diabetes in
those who are not pregnant:

    * Fasting: 60 to 100 mg/dL (3.3 to 5.5 mmol/L)
    * 1 hour: less than 200 mg/dL (11.1 mmol/L)
    * 2 hours: less than 140 mg/dL (7.8 mmol/L) 

The examples above are common measurements for results of these tests. Normal
value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs use
different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your doctor about
the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A glucose level that is higher than normal may mean you have pre-diabetes or
diabetes:

    * A 2-hour value between 140 and 200 mg/dL (7.8 and 11.1 mmol/L) is called impaired glucose tolerance. Your doctor may call this pre-diabetes. It means you are at increased risk of developing diabetes over time.
    * A glucose level of 200 mg/dL (11.1 mmol/L) or higher is used to diagnose diabetes. 

Serious stress to the body, such as from trauma, stroke, heart attack, or
surgery, can raise your blood glucose level. Vigorous exercise can lower your
blood glucose level.

Some medicines can raise or lower your blood glucose level. Before having the
test, tell your provider about any medicines you are taking.

## Risks

You may have some of the symptoms listed above under the heading titled "How
the Test will Feel."

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins  

    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

Oral glucose tolerance test - non-pregnant; OGTT - non-pregnant; Diabetes -
glucose tolerance test; Diabetic - glucose tolerance test

## Images

    * ![Fasting glucose tolerance test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19723t.jpg)Fasting glucose tolerance test
    * ![Oral glucose tolerance test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19810t.jpg)Oral glucose tolerance test

## References

American Diabetes Association. 2. Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes:
Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes - 2019. _Diabetes Care_. 2019;42(Suppl
1):S13-S28. PMID: 30559228 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30559228.

Dennedy MC, Rizza RA, Dinneen SF. Classification and diagnosis of diabetes
mellitus. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds.
_Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 38.

Nadkarni P, Weinstock RS. Carbohydrates. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 16.

## Review Date 8/19/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, Associate Professor of Medicine, Division of
Metabolism, Endocrinology & Nutrition, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Internal review and update on 07/10/2019 by David
Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Diabetes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Diabetes_thumb.jpg)Diabetes _Read
more_

![Diabetes Type
1](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesType1_thumb.jpg)Diabetes Type 1
_Read more_

![Diabetes in Children and
Teens](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesinChildrenandTeens_thumb.jpg)Diabetes
in Children and Teens _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

