Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000332.htm    
                                Description: High blood sugar is also called high blood glucose, or hyperglycemia.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

High blood sugar - self-care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000332.htm

# High blood sugar - self-care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

High blood sugar is also called high blood glucose, or hyperglycemia.

High blood sugar almost always happens in people who have diabetes. High blood
sugar occurs when:

    * Your body makes too little insulin.
    * Your body does not respond to the signal insulin is sending. 

Insulin is a hormone that helps the body move glucose (sugar) from the blood
into muscle or fat, where it is stored for later use when energy is needed.

Sometimes high blood sugar occurs due to stress from surgery, infection,
trauma, or medicines. After the stress is over, blood sugar returns to normal.

## Symptoms of High Blood Sugar

Symptoms of high blood sugar can include:

    * Being very thirsty or having a dry mouth
    * Having blurry vision
    * Having dry skin
    * Feeling weak or tired
    * Needing to urinate a lot, or needing to get up more often than usual at night to urinate 

You may have other, more serious symptoms if your blood sugar becomes very
high or remains high for a long time. Over time, high blood sugar weakens your
immune system and makes it more likely for you to get infections.

## What to Think About When Your Blood Sugar is High

High blood sugar can harm you. If your blood sugar is high, you need to know
how to bring it down. If you have diabetes, here are some questions to ask
yourself when your blood sugar is high:

    * Are you eating right?
    * Are you eating too much?
    * Have you been following your diabetes meal plan?
    * Did you have a meal or a snack with a lot of carbohydrates, starches, or simple sugars? 

Are you taking your diabetes medicines correctly?

    * Has your doctor changed your medicines?
    * If you take insulin, have you been taking the correct dose?Â Is the insulin expired? Or has it been stored in a hot or cold place?
    * Are you afraid of having low blood sugar? Is that causing you to eat too much or take too little insulin or other diabetes medicine?
    * Have you injected insulin into a scar or overused area? Have you been rotating sites? Was the injection into a lump or numb spot under the skin? 

What else has changed?

    * Have you been less active than usual?
    * Do you have a fever, cold, the flu, or another illness?
    * Have you had some stress?
    * Have you been checking your blood sugar regularly?
    * Have you gained weight?
    * Have you started taking any new medicines such as for high blood pressure or other medical problems? 

## Preventing High Blood Sugar

To prevent high blood sugar, you will need to:

    * Follow your meal plan
    * Stay physically active
    * Take your diabetes medicines as instructed 

You and your doctor will:

    * Set a target goal for your blood sugar levels for different times during the day. This helps you manage your blood sugar.
    * Decide how often you need to check your blood sugar at home. 

If your blood sugar is higher than your goals over 3 days and you don't know
why, check your urine for ketones. Then call your health care provider.

## Alternative Names

Hyperglycemia - self care; High blood glucose - self care; Diabetes - high
blood sugar

## References

American Diabetes Association. 6. Glycemic targets: standards of medical care
in diabetes-2018. _Diabetes Care_. 2018;41(Suppl 1):S55-S64. PMID: 29222377
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29222377.

American Diabetes Association. 4. Lifestyle management: standards of medical
care in diabetes-2018. _Diabetes Care_. 2018;41(Suppl 1):S38-S50. PMID:
29222375 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29222375.

Pasquel FJ, Umpierrez GE. Hyperglycemic crises: diabetic ketoacidosis and
hyperglycemic hyperosmolar state. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM,
et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 46.

## Review Date 8/19/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, Associate Professor of Medicine, Division of
Metabolism, Endocrinology & Nutrition, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Diabetes
    * Diabetes Type 2
    * Diabetes in Children and Teens
    * Hyperglycemia

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

