Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003567.htm    
                                Description: The ACE test measures the level of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) in the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

ACE blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003567.htm

# ACE blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The ACE test measures the level of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) in the
blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Follow your health care provider's instructions for not eating or drinking for
up to 12 hours before the test. If you are on steroid medicine, ask your
provider if you need to stop the medicine before the test, because steroids
can decrease ACE levels. DO NOT stop any medicine before talking to your
provider.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or slight bruising. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test may be commonly ordered to help diagnose and monitor a disorder
called sarcoidosis. People with sarcoidosis may have their ACE level tested
regularly to check how severe the disease is and how well treatment is
working.

This test also helps confirm Gaucher disease and leprosy.

## Normal Results

Normal values vary based on your age and the test method used. Adults have an
ACE level less than 40 micrograms/L.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your doctor
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Higher than normal ACE level may be a sign of sarcoidosis. ACE levels may rise
or fall as sarcoidosis worsens or improves.

A higher than normal ACE level may also be seen in several other diseases and
disorders, including:

    * Cancer of the lymph tissue (Hodgkin disease)
    * Diabetes mellitus
    * Liver swelling and inflammation (hepatitis) due to alcohol use
    * Lung disease such as asthma, cancer, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or tuberculosis
    * Kidney disorder called nephrotic syndrome
    * Multiple sclerosis
    * Adrenal glands do not make enough hormones (Addison disease)
    * Stomach ulcer
    * Overactive thyroid (hyperthyroidism) 
    * Overactive parathyroid glands (hyperparathyroidism)

Lower than normal ACE level may indicate:

    * Chronic liver disease
    * Chronic kidney failure
    * Eating disorder called anorexia nervosa
    * Steroid therapy (usually prednisone)
    * Therapy for sarcoidosis
    * Underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism) 

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
    * Excessive bleeding
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

Serum angiotensin-converting enzyme; SACE

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Carty RP, Pincus MR, Sarafraz-Yazdi E. Clinical enzymology. In: McPherson RA,
Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory
Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 20.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) - blood. In:
Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_.
6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:138-139.

## Review Date 11/20/2017

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cirrhosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cirrhosis2_thumb.jpg)Cirrhosis
_Read more_

![Diabetes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Diabetes_thumb.jpg)Diabetes _Read
more_

![Enfermedad pulmonar
intersticial](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InterstitialLungDisease_thumb.jpg)Interstitial
Lung Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

