Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000702.htm    
                                Description: You may need surgery for a diabetes complication.Â Or, you may need surgery for a medical problem that is unrelated to your diabetes. Your diabetes may increase your risk for problems during or after your    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Preparing for surgery when you have diabetes

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000702.htm

# Preparing for surgery when you have diabetes

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You may need surgery for a diabetes complication.Â Or, you may need surgery
for a medical problem that is unrelated to your diabetes. Your diabetes may
increase your risk for problems during or after your surgery, such as:

    * Infection after surgery (especially at the site of the surgery)
    * Healing more slowly
    * Fluid, electrolyte, and kidney problems
    * Heart problems

## Before Surgery

Work with your health care provider to come up with the safest surgery plan
for you.

Focus more on controlling your diabetes during the days to weeks before
surgery.

Your provider will do a medical exam and talk to you about your health.

    * Tell your provider about all the medicines you are taking.
    * If you take metformin, talk to your provider about stopping it. Sometimes, it should be stopped 48 hours before and 48 hours after surgery to decrease the risk of a problem called lactic acidosis.
    * If you take other types of diabetes drugs, follow your provider's instructions if you need to stop the drug before surgery. Medicines called SGLT2 inhibitors (gliflozins) can increase the risk of blood sugar problems related to surgery. Tell your provider if you are taking one of these medicines.
    * If you take insulin, ask your provider what dose you should take the night before or the day of your surgery.
    * Your provider may have you meet with a dietitian, or give you a specific meal and activity plan to try to make sure your blood sugar is well-controlled for the week prior to your surgery.
    * Some surgeons will cancel or delay surgery if your blood sugar is high when you arrive at the hospital for your surgery. 

Surgery is riskier if you have diabetes complications. So talk to your
provider about your diabetes control and any complications you have from
diabetes. Tell your provider about any problems you have with your heart,
kidneys, or eyes, or if you have loss of feeling in your feet. The provider
may run some tests to check the status of those problems.

## During Surgery

You may do better with surgery and get better faster if your blood sugar is
controlled during surgery. So, before surgery, talk to your provider about
your blood sugar target level during the days before your operation.

During surgery, insulin is given by the anesthesiologist. You will meet with
this doctor before surgery to discuss the plan to control your blood sugar
during the operation.

## After Surgery

You or your nurses should check your blood sugar often. You may have more
trouble controlling your blood sugar because you:

    * Have trouble eating
    * Are vomiting
    * Are stressed after surgery
    * Are less active than usual
    * Have pain or discomfort
    * Are given medicines that increase your blood sugar 

Expect that you may take more time to heal because of your diabetes. Be
prepared for a longer hospital stay if you are having major surgery. People
with diabetes often have to stay in the hospital longer than people without
diabetes.

Watch for signs of infection, such as a fever, or an incision that is red, hot
to touch, swollen, more painful, or oozing.

Prevent bedsores. Move around in bed and get out of bed frequently. If you
have less feeling in your toes and fingers, you may not feel if you are
getting a bed sore. Make sure you move around.

After you leave the hospital, it is important for you to work with your
primary care team to make sure your blood sugar continues to be well
controlled.

## When to Call Your Doctor

Call your doctor if:

    * You have any questions about surgery or anesthesia
    * You are not sure what medicines or doses of your medicines you should take or stop taking before surgery
    * You think that you have an infection 

## Images

    * ![Low blood sugar symptoms](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19813t.jpg)Low blood sugar symptoms
    * ![Monitoring blood glucose - series - Using a self-test meter](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19839t.jpg)Monitoring blood glucose - Series

## References

American Diabetes Association. 15. Diabetes care in the hospital: standards of
medical care in diabetes -- 2019. _Diabetes Care_. 2019;42(Suppl 1):S173-S181.
PMID: 30559241 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30559241.

Neumayer L, Ghalyaie N. Principles of preoperative and operative surgery. In:
Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of
Surgery: The Biological Basis of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 10.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Diabetes
    * Surgery

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

