Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003498.htm    
                                Description: A ketone blood test measures the amount of ketones in the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ketones blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003498.htm

# Ketones blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A ketone blood test measures the amount of ketones in the blood.

Ketones can also be measured with a urine test.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No preparation is needed.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel slight pain.
Others feel a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing or a
slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

Ketones are substances produced in the liver when fat cells break down in the
blood. This test is used to diagnose ketoacidosis. This is a life-threatening
problem that affects people who:

    * Have diabetes. It occurs when the body cannot use sugar (glucose) as a fuel source because there is no insulin or not enough insulin. Fat is used for fuel instead. When fat breaks down, waste products called ketones build up in the body.
    * Drink large amounts of alcohol.

## Normal Results

A normal test result is negative. This means there are no ketones in the
blood.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your health care
provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A test result is positive if ketones are found in the blood. This may
indicate:

    * Alcoholic ketoacidosis
    * Diabetic ketoacidosis
    * Starvation
    * Uncontrolled blood glucose in people with diabetes

Other reasons ketones are found in the blood include:

    * A diet low in carbohydrates can increase ketones.
    * After receiving anesthesia for surgery
    * Glycogen storage disease (condition in which the body can't break down glycogen, a form of sugar that is stored in the liver and muscles)
    * Being on a weight-loss diet

## Risks

There is little risk in having your blood taken. Veins and arteries vary in
size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the other.
Drawing blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Acetone bodies; Ketones - serum; Nitroprusside test; Ketone bodies - serum;
Ketones - blood; Ketoacidosis - ketones blood test; Diabetes - ketones test;
Acidosis - ketones test

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Ketone bodies. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds.
_Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier;
2013:693.

Nadkarni P, Weinstock RS. Carbohydrates. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 16.

## Review Date 1/26/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Alcoholism and Alcohol
Abuse](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Alcohol2_thumb.jpg)Alcohol Use Disorder
(AUD) _Read more_

![Diabetes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Diabetes_thumb.jpg)Diabetes _Read
more_

![Diabetes
Complications](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesComplications_thumb.jpg)Diabetes
Complications _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

