Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003881.htm    
                                Description: Ophthalmoscopy is an examination of the back part of the eye (fundus), which includes the retina, optic disc, choroid, and blood vessels.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ophthalmoscopy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003881.htm

# Ophthalmoscopy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ophthalmoscopy is an examination of the back part of the eye (fundus), which
includes the retina, optic disc, choroid, and blood vessels.

## How the Test is Performed

There are different types of ophthalmoscopy.

    *  **Direct ophthalmoscopy**. You will be seated in a darkened room. The health care provider performs this exam by shining a beam of light through the pupil using an instrument called an ophthalmoscope. An ophthalmoscope is about the size of a flashlight. It has a light and different tiny lenses that allow the provider to view the back of the eyeball.
    *  **Indirect ophthalmoscopy**. You will either lie or sit in a semi-reclined position. The provider holds your eye open while shining a very bright light into the eye using an instrument worn on the head. (The instrument looks like a miner's light.) The provider views the back of the eye through a lens held close to your eye. Some pressure may be applied to the eye using a small, blunt probe. You will be asked to look in various directions. This exam is usually used to look for detached retina.
    * Slit-lamp ophthalmoscopy. You will sit in a chair with the instrument placed in front of you. You will be asked to rest your chin and forehead on a support to keep your head steady. The provider will use the microscope part of the slit lamp and a tiny lens placed close to the front of the eye. The provider can see about the same with this technique as with indirect ophthalmoscopy, but with higher magnification.

The ophthalmoscopy examination takes about 5 to 10 minutes.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Indirect ophthalmoscopy and slit-lamp ophthalmoscopy are often performed after
eyedrops are placed to widen (dilate) the pupils. Direct ophthalmoscopy and
slit-lamp ophthalmoscopy can be performed with or without the pupil dilated.

You should tell your provider if you:

    * Are allergic to any medicines
    * Are taking any medicines
    * Have glaucoma or a family history of glaucoma 

## How the Test will Feel

The bright light will be uncomfortable, but the test is not painful.

You may briefly see images after the light shines in your eyes. The light is
brighter with indirect ophthalmoscopy, so the sensation of seeing after-images
may be greater.

Pressure on the eye during indirect ophthalmoscopy may be slightly
uncomfortable, but it should not be painful.

If eyedrops are used, they may sting briefly when placed in the eyes. You may
also have an unusual taste in your mouth.

## Why the Test is Performed

Ophthalmoscopy is done as part of a routine physical or complete eye
examination.

It is used to detect and evaluate symptoms of retinal detachment or eye
diseases such as glaucoma.

Ophthalmoscopy may also be done if you have signs or symptoms of high blood
pressure, diabetes, or other diseases that affect the blood vessels.

## Normal Results

The retina, blood vessels, and the optic disc appear normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be seen on ophthalmoscopy with any of the following
conditions:

    * Viral inflammation of the retina (CMV retinitis)
    * Diabetes
    * Glaucoma
    * High blood pressure
    * Loss of sharp vision due to age-related macular degeneration
    * Melanoma of the eye
    * Optic nerve problems
    * Separation of the light-sensitive membrane (retina) in the back of the eye from its supporting layers (retinal tear or detachment)

Ophthalmoscopy is considered to be 90% to 95% accurate. It can detect the
early stages and effects of many serious diseases. For conditions that cannot
be detected by ophthalmoscopy, there are other techniques and devices that may
be helpful.

## Risks

If you receive drops to dilate your eyes for the ophthalmoscopy, your vision
will be blurred.

    * Wear sunglasses to protect your eyes from sunlight, which can damage your eyes.
    * Have someone drive you home.
    * The drops usually wear off in several hours. 

The test itself involves no risk. In rare cases, the dilating eyedrops cause:

    * An attack of narrow-angle glaucoma
    * Dizziness
    * Dryness of the mouth
    * Flushing
    * Nausea and vomiting 

If narrow-angle glaucoma is suspected, dilating drops are usually not used.

## Alternative Names

Funduscopy; Funduscopic exam

## Images

    * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye
    * ![Lateral eye anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9886t.jpg)Side view of the eye (cut section)

## References

Atebara NH, Miller D, Thall EH. Ophthalmic instruments. In: Yanoff M, Duker
JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 2.5.

Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW. Eyes. In: Ball JW, Dains
JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW, eds. _Seidel's Guide to Physical
Examination_. 8th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Mosby; 2015:chap 11.

Feder RS, Olsen TW, Prum BE Jr, et al. Comprehensive adult medical eye
evaluation preferred practice pattern guidelines. _Ophthalmology_.
2016;123(1):209-236. PMID: 26581558 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26581558.

## Review Date 2/28/2019

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eye Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeDiseases_thumb.jpg)Eye
Diseases _Read more_

![Glaucoma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Glaucoma3_thumb.jpg)Glaucoma _Read
more_

![Macular
Degeneration](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MacularDegeneration_thumb.jpg)Macular
Degeneration _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

