Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003447.htm    
                                Description: Tonometry is a test to measure the pressure inside your eyes. The test is used to screen for glaucoma. It is also used to measure how well glaucoma treatment is working.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tonometry

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003447.htm

# Tonometry

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Tonometry is a test to measure the pressure inside your eyes. The test is used
to screen for glaucoma. It is also used to measure how well glaucoma treatment
is working.

## How the Test is Performed

There are three main methods of measuring eye pressure.

The most accurate method measures the force needed to flatten an area of the
cornea.

    * The surface of the eye is numbed with eye drops. A fine strip of paper stained with orange dye is held to the side of the eye. The dye stains the front of the eye to help with the exam. Sometimes the dye is in the numbing drops.
    * You will rest your chin and forehead on the support of a slit lamp so that your head is steady. You will be asked to keep your eyes open and to look straight ahead. The lamp is moved forward until the tip of the tonometer just touches the cornea.
    * Blue light is used so that the orange dye will glow green. The health care provider looks through the eyepiece on the slit-lamp and adjusts a dial on the machine to give the pressure reading.
    * There is no discomfort with the test. 

A second method uses a handheld device shaped like a pencil. You are given
numbing eye drops to prevent any discomfort. The device touches the surface of
the cornea and instantly records eye pressure.

The last method is the noncontact method (air puff). In this method, your chin
rests on a device similar to a slit lamp.

    * You stare straight into the examining device. When you are at the correct distance from the device, a tiny beam of light reflects off of your cornea onto a detector.
    * When the test is performed, a puff of air will slightly flatten the cornea; how much it flattens depends on the eye pressure.
    * This causes the tiny beam of light to move to a different spot on the detector. The instrument calculates eye pressure by looking at how far the beam of light moved. 

## How to Prepare for the Test

Remove contact lenses before the exam. The dye can permanently stain contact
lenses.

Tell your provider if you have a history of corneal ulcers or eye infections,
or a history of glaucoma in your family. Always tell your provider what
medicines you are taking.

## How the Test will Feel

If numbing eye drops were used, you should not have any pain. In the
noncontact method, you may feel mild pressure on your eye from the air puff.

## Why the Test is Performed

Tonometry is a test to measure the pressure inside your eyes. The test is used
to screen for glaucoma and to measure how well glaucoma treatment is working.

People over age 40 years, particularly African Americans, have the highest
risk for developing glaucoma. Regular eye exams can help detect glaucoma
early. If it is detected early, glaucoma can be treated before too much damage
is done.

The test may also be done before and after eye surgery.

## Normal Results

A normal result means your eye pressure is within the normal range. The normal
eye pressure range is 10Â to 21 mm Hg.

The thickness of your cornea can affect measurements. Normal eyes with thick
corneas have higher readings, and normal eyes with thin corneas have lower
readings. A thin cornea with a high reading may be very abnormal (the actual
eye pressure will be higher than shown on the tonometer).

A corneal thickness measurement (pachymetry) is needed to get a correct
pressure measurement.

Talk to your doctor about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

    * Glaucoma
    * Hyphema (blood in the front chamber of the eye)
    * Inflammation in the eye
    * Injury to the eye or head 

## Risks

If the applanation method is used, there is a small chance the cornea may be
scratched (corneal abrasion). The scratch will normally heal within a few
days.

## Alternative Names

Intraocular pressure (IOP) measurement; Glaucoma test; Goldmann applanation
tonometry (GAT)

## Images

    * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye

## References

Bowling B. Glaucoma. In: Bowling B, ed. _Kanski's Clinical Ophthalmology_. 8th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 10.

Knoop KJ, Dennis WR. Ophthalmologic procedures. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB,
Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency
Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 62.

Lee D, Yung ES, Katz LJ. Clinical examination of glaucoma. In: Yanoff M, Duker
JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 10.4.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Glaucoma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Glaucoma3_thumb.jpg)Glaucoma _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

