Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/004016.htm    
                                Description: Aging changes in the female reproductive system result mainly from changing hormone levels. One clear sign of aging occurs when your menstrual periods stop permanently. This is known as menopause.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Aging changes in the female reproductive system

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/004016.htm

# Aging changes in the female reproductive system

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Aging changes in the female reproductive system result mainly from changing
hormone levels. One clear sign of aging occurs when your menstrual periods
stop permanently. This is known as menopause.

The time before menopause is called perimenopause. It may begin several years
before your last menstrual period. Signs of perimenopause include:

    * More frequent periods at first, and then occasional missed periods
    * Periods that are longer or shorter
    * Changes in the amount of menstrual flow

Eventually your periods will become much less frequent, until they stop
completely.

Along with changes in your periods, physical changes in your reproductive
tract occur as well.

AGING CHANGES AND THEIR EFFECTS

Menopause is a normal part of a woman's aging process. Most women experience
menopause around age 50, though it can occur before that age. The usual age
range is 45 to 55.

With menopause:

    * The ovaries stop making the hormones estrogen and progesterone.
    * The ovaries also stop releasing eggs (ova, oocytes). After menopause, you can no longer become pregnant.
    * Your menstrual periods stop. You know you have gone through menopause after you have had no periods for 1 year. You should continue to use a birth control method until you have gone a whole year without a period. Any bleeding that occurs more than 1 year after your last period is not normal and should be checked by your health care provider.

As hormone levels fall, other changes occur in the reproductive system,
including:

    * Vaginal walls become thinner, dryer, less elastic, and possibly irritated. Sometimes sex becomes painful due to these vaginal changes.
    * Your risk of vaginal yeast infectionsÂ increases.
    * The external genital tissue decreases and thins, and can become irritated.

Other common changes include:

    * Menopause symptoms such as hot flashes, moodiness, headaches, and trouble sleeping
    * Problems with short-term memory
    * Decrease in breast tissue
    * Lower sex drive (libido) and sexual response
    * Increased risk of bone loss (osteoporosis)
    * Urinary system changes, such as frequency and urgency of urination and increased risk of urinary tract infection
    * Loss of tone in the pubic muscles, resulting in the vagina, uterus, or urinary bladder falling out of position (prolapse)

MANAGING CHANGES

Hormone therapy with estrogen or progesterone, alone or in combination, may
help menopause symptoms such as hot flashes or vaginal dryness and pain with
intercourse. Hormone therapy has risks, so it is not for every woman. Discuss
the risks and benefits of hormone therapy with your provider.

To help manage problems such as painful sexual intercourse, use a lubricant
during sexual intercourse. Vaginal moisturizers are available without a
prescription. These can help with vaginal and vulvar discomfort due to the
drying and thinning of tissues. Applying topical estrogen inside the vagina
may help thicken the vaginal tissues and increase moisture and sensitivity.
Your provider can tell you if any of these measures is right for you.

Getting regular exercise, eating healthy foods, and staying involved in
activities with friends and loved ones can help the aging process go more
smoothly.

OTHER CHANGES

Other aging changes to expect:

    * Hormone production
    * Organs, tissues, and cells
    * Breasts
    * Kidneys

## Images

    * ![Menopause](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17252t.jpg)Menopause

## References

Grady D, Barrett-Connor E. Menopause. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 240.

Lamberts SWJ, van den Beld AW. Endocrinology and aging. In: Melmed S, Polonsky
KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 27.

Lobo RA. Menopause and care of the mature woman: endocrinology, consequences
of estrogen deficiency, effects of hormone therapy, and other treatment
options.Â In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive
Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 14.

White BA, Harrison JR, Mehlmann LM. Life cycle of the male and female
reproductive systems. In: White BA, Harrison JR, Mehlmann LM, eds. _Endocrine
and Reproductive Physiology_. 5th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2019:chap 8.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Menopause](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Menopause_thumb.jpg)Menopause
_Read more_

![Seniors' Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SeniorHealth_thumb.jpg)Older
Adult Health _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

