Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003708.htm    
                                Description: TheÂ LH blood test measures the amount of luteinizing hormone (LH) in blood. LH is a hormone released by the pituitary gland, located on the underside of the brain.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Luteinizing hormone (LH) blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003708.htm

# Luteinizing hormone (LH) blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

TheÂ LH blood test measures the amount of luteinizing hormone (LH) in blood.
LH is a hormone released by the pituitary gland, located on the underside of
the brain.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your health care provider will ask you to temporarily stop medicines that may
affect the test results. Be sure to tell your provider about all the medicines
you take. These include:

    * Birth control pills
    * Hormone therapy
    * Testosterone
    * DHEA (a supplement)

If you are a woman of childbearing age, the test may need to be done on a
specific day of your menstrual cycle. Tell your provider if you have recently
been exposed to radioisotopes, such as during a nuclear medicine test.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

In women, an increase in LH level at mid-cycle causes release of eggs
(ovulation). Your doctor will order this test to see if:

    * You are ovulating, when you are having trouble getting pregnant or have periods that are not regular
    * You have reached menopause

If you are a man, the test may be ordered if you have signs of infertility or
lowered sex drive. The test may be ordered if you have signs of a pituitary
gland problem.

## Normal Results

Normal results for adult women are:

    * Before menopause -Â 5 to 25 IU/L
    * Level peaks even higher around the middle of the menstrual cycle
    * Level then becomes higher after menopause -Â 14.2 to 52.3 IU/L 

LH levels are normally low during childhood.

Normal result for men over 18 years of age is around 1.8 to 8.6 IU/L.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to yourÂ provider
about the meaning of your specific test result.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

In women, a higher than normal level of LH is seen:

    * When women of childbearing age are not ovulating
    * When there is an imbalance of female sex hormones (such as with polycystic ovary syndrome)
    * During or after menopause
    * Turner syndrome (rare genetic condition in which a female does not have the usual pair of 2 X chromosomes)
    * When the ovaries produce little or no hormones (ovarian hypofunction) 

In men, a higher than normal level of LH may be due to:

    * Absence of testes or testes that do not function (anorchia)
    * Problem with genes, such as Klinefelter syndrome
    * Endocrine glands that are overactive or form a tumor (multiple endocrine neoplasia) 

In children, a higher than normal level is seen in early (precocious) puberty.

A lower than normal level of LH may be due to the pituitary gland not making
enough hormone (hypopituitarism).

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

ICSH - blood test; Luteinizing hormone - blood test; Interstitial cell
stimulating hormone - blood test

## References

Jeelani R, Bluth MH. Reproductive function and pregnancy. In: McPherson RA,
Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory
Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 25.

Lobo R. Infertility: etiology, diagnostic evaluation, management, prognosis.
In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive
Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 42.

## Review Date 6/30/2019

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Female
Infertility](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FemaleInfertility_thumb.jpg)Female
Infertility _Read more_

![Hormones](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hormones2_thumb.jpg)Hormones _Read
more_

![Menopause](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Menopause_thumb.jpg)Menopause
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

