Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000894.htm    
                                Description: Menopause is the time in a woman    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Menopause

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000894.htm

# Menopause

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Menopause is the time in a woman's life when her periods (menstruation) stop.
Most often, it is a natural, normal body change that most often occurs between
ages 45 to 55. After menopause, a woman can no longer become pregnant.

## Causes

During menopause, a woman's ovaries stop releasing eggs. The body produces
less of the female hormones estrogen and progesterone. Lower levels of these
hormones cause menopause symptoms.

Periods occur less often and eventually stop. Sometimes this happens suddenly.
But most of the time, periods slowly stop over time.

Menopause is complete when you have not had a period for 1 year. This is
called postmenopause. Surgical menopause takes place when surgical treatments
cause a drop in estrogen. This can happen if both of your ovaries are removed.

Menopause can also sometimes be caused by drugs used for chemotherapy or
hormone therapy (HT) for breast cancer.

## Symptoms

Symptoms vary from woman to woman. They may last 5 or more years. Symptoms may
be worse for some women than others. Symptoms of surgical menopause can be
more severe and start more suddenly.

The first thing you may notice is that periods start to change. They might
occur more often or less often. Some women might get their period every 3
weeks before starting to skip periods You may have irregular periods for 1 to
3 years before they stop completely.

![Menopause](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17252.jpg)

Common symptoms of menopause include:

    * Menstrual periods that occur less often and eventually stop
    * Heart pounding or racing
    * Hot flashes, usually worst during the first 1 to 2 years
    * Night sweats
    * Skin flushing
    * Sleeping problems (insomnia) 

Other symptoms of menopause may include:

    * Decreased interest in sex or changes in sexual response
    * Forgetfulness (in some women)
    * Headaches
    * Mood swings, including irritability, depression, and anxiety
    * Urine leakage
    * Vaginal dryness and painful sexual intercourse
    * Vaginal infections
    * Joint aches and pains
    * Irregular heartbeat (palpitations) 

## Exams and Tests

Blood and urine tests can be used to look for changes in hormone levels. Test
results can help your health care provider determine if you are close to
menopause or if you have already gone through menopause. Your provider may
need to repeat testing your hormone levels several times to confirm your
menopausal status if you have not completely stopped menstruating.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Estradiol
    * Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH)
    * Luteinizing hormone (LH) 

Your provider will perform a pelvic exam. Decreased estrogen can cause changes
in the lining of the vagina.

Bone loss increases during the first few years after your last period. Your
provider may order a bone density test to look for bone loss related to
osteoporosis. This bone density test is recommendedÂ for all women over age
65. This test may be recommended sooner if you are at higher risk for
osteoporosis because of your family history or medicines that you take.

## Treatment

Treatment may include lifestyle changes or HT. Treatment depends on many
factors such as:

    * How bad your symptoms are
    * Your overall health
    * Your preferences 

HORMONE THERAPY

HT may help if you have severe hot flashes, night sweats, mood issues, or
vaginal dryness. HT is treatment with estrogen and, sometimes, progesterone.

Talk to your provider about the benefits and risks of HT. Your provider should
be aware of your entire medical and family history before prescribing HT.

Several major studies have questioned the health benefits and risks of HT,
including the risk of developing breast cancer, heart attacks, strokes, and
blood clots.Â However, using HT for the 10 years after developing menopause is
associated with a lower chance of death.

Current guidelines support the use of HT for the treatment of hot flashes.
Specific recommendations:

    * HT may be started in women who have recently entered menopause.
    * HT should not be used in women who started menopause many years ago, except for vaginal estrogen treatments.
    * The medicine should not be used for longer than necessary. Some women may require prolonged estrogen use due to troublesome hot flashes. This is safe in healthy women.
    * Women taking HT should have a low risk for stroke, heart disease, blood clots, or breast cancer. 

To reduce the risks of estrogen therapy, your provider may recommend:

    * A lower dose of estrogen or a different estrogen preparation (for instance, a vaginal cream or skin patch rather than a pill).
    * Using patches appears to be safer than oral estrogen, as it avoids the increased risk for blood clots seen with oral estrogen use.
    * Frequent and regular physical exams, including breast exams and mammograms 
![Mammogram](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/23188.jpg)

Women who still have a uterus (that is, have not had surgery to remove it for
any reason) should take estrogen combined with progesterone to prevent cancer
of the lining of the uterus (endometrial cancer).

ALTERNATIVES TO HORMONE THERAPY

There are other medicines that can help with mood swings, hot flashes, and
other symptoms. These include:

    * Antidepressants, including paroxetine (Paxil), venlafaxine (Effexor), bupropion (Wellbutrin), and fluoxetine (Prozac)
    * A blood pressure medicine called clonidine
    * Gabapentin, a seizure drug that also helps reduce hot flashes 

DIET AND LIFESTYLE CHANGES

Lifestyle steps you can take to reduce menopause symptoms include:

Diet changes:

    * Avoid caffeine, alcohol, and spicy foods.
    * Eat soy foods. Soy contains estrogen.
    * Get plenty of calcium and vitamin D in food or supplements. 

Exercise and relaxation techniques:

    * Get plenty of exercise.
    * Do Kegel exercises every day. They strengthen the muscles of your vagina and pelvis.
    * Practice slow, deep breathing whenever a hot flash begins. Try taking 6 breaths a minute.
    * Try yoga, tai chi, or meditation. 

Other tips:

    * Dress lightly and in layers.
    * Keep having sex.
    * Use water-based lubricants or a vaginal moisturizer during sex.
    * See an acupuncture specialist. 

## Possible Complications

Some women have vaginal bleeding after menopause. This is often nothing to
worry about. However, you should tell your provider if this happens,
especially if it occurs more than a year after menopause. It may be an early
sign of problems such as cancer. Your provider will do a biopsy of the uterine
lining or a vaginal ultrasound.

Decreased estrogen level has been linkedÂ to some long-term effects,
including:

    * Bone loss and osteoporosis in some women
    * Changes in cholesterol levels and greater risk for heart disease

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You are spotting blood between periods
    * You have had 12 consecutive months with no period and vaginal bleeding or spotting begins again suddenly (even a small amount of bleeding)

## Prevention

Menopause is a natural part of a woman's development. It does not need to be
prevented. You can reduce your risk for long-term problems such as
osteoporosis and heart disease by taking the following steps:

    * Control your blood pressure, cholesterol, and other risk factors for heart disease.
    * DO NOT smoke. Cigarette use can cause early menopause.
    * Get regular exercise. Resistance exercises help strengthen your bones and improve your balance.
    * Talk to your provider about medicines that can help stop further bone weakening if you show early signs of bone loss or have a strong family history of osteoporosis.
    * Take calcium and vitamin D. 

## Alternative Names

Perimenopause; Postmenopause

## Images

    * ![Menopause](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17252t.jpg)Menopause
    * ![Mammogram](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23188t.jpg)Mammogram

## References

American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. ACOG Practice Bulletin
No. 141: management of menopausal symptoms. _Obstet Gynecol_.
2014;123(1):202-216. PMID: 24463691 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24463691.

Lobo RA. Menopause and care of the mature woman: endocrinology, consequences
of estrogen deficiency, effects of hormone therapy, and other treatment
options. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive
Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 14.

Lamberts SWJ, van de Beld AW. Endocrinology and aging. In: Melmed S, Polonsky
KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 27.

Moyer VA; US Preventive Services Task Force. Vitamin D and calcium
supplementation to prevent fractures in adults: U.S. Preventive Services Task
Force recommendation statement. _Ann Intern Med_. 2013;158(9):691-696. PMID:
23440163 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23440163.

North American Menopause Society. The 2017 hormone therapy position statement
of The North American Menopause Society. _Menopause_. 2017;24(7):728-753.
PMID: 28650892 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28650892.

Skaznik-Wikiel ME, Traub ML, Santoro N. Menopause. In: Jameson JL, De Groot
LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 135.

## Review Date 6/30/2019

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Menopause](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Menopause_thumb.jpg)Menopause
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

