Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000695.htm    
                                Description: Hormone therapy (HT) uses one or more hormones to treat symptoms of menopause. HT uses estrogen, progestin (a type of progesterone), or both. Sometimes testosterone is also added.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Types of hormone therapy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000695.htm

# Types of hormone therapy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hormone therapy (HT) uses one or more hormones to treat symptoms of menopause.
HT uses estrogen, progestin (a type of progesterone), or both. Sometimes
testosterone is also added.

## Menopause and Hormones

Menopause symptoms include:

    * Hot flashes
    * Night sweats
    * Sleep problems
    * Vaginal dryness
    * Anxiety
    * Moodiness
    * Less interest in sex 

After menopause, your body stops making estrogen and progesterone. HT can
treat menopause symptoms that bother you.

HT does have some risks. It may increase your risk for:

    * Blood clots
    * Breast cancer
    * Heart disease
    * Stroke 

Despite these concerns, for many women, HT is a safe way to treat menopause
symptoms.

Currently, experts are unclear on how long you should take HT. Some
professional groups suggest that you can take HT for menopause symptoms for
longer periods if there is not medical reason to discontinue the medication.
For many women, low doses of HT may be enough to control troublesome symptoms.
Low doses of HT tend to have few side effects. These are all issues to discuss
with your health care provider.

## Forms of Hormone Therapy

HT comes in different forms. You may need to try different types before
finding one that works best for you.

Estrogen comes in:

    * Nasal spray
    * Pills or tablets, taken by mouth
    * Skin gel
    * Skin patches, applied to the thigh or belly
    * Vaginal creams or vaginal tablets to help with dryness and pain with sexual intercourse
    * Vaginal ring

Most women who take estrogen and who still have their uterus also need to take
progestin. Taking both hormones together lowers the risk of endometrial
(uterine) cancer. Women who have had their uterus removed cannot get
endometrial cancer. So, estrogen alone is recommended for them.

Progesterone or progestin comes in:

    * Pills
    * Skin patches
    * Vaginal creams
    * Vaginal suppositories

The type of HT your doctor prescribes may depend on what menopause symptoms
you have. For example, pills or patches can treat night sweats. Vaginal rings,
creams, or tablets help relieve vaginal dryness.

Discuss the benefits and risks of HT with your provider.

## How you Will Take Hormones

When taking estrogen and progesterone together, your doctor may suggest one of
the following schedules:

 **Cyclic hormone therapy** is often recommended when you start menopause.

    * You take estrogen as a pill or use it in patch form for 25 days.
    * Progestin is added between days 10 and 14.
    * You use estrogen and progestin together for the remainder of the 25 days.
    * You don't take any hormones for 3 to 5 days.
    * You may have some monthly bleeding with cyclic therapy. 

**Combined therapy** is when you take estrogen and progestin together every
day.

    * You may have some unusual bleeding when starting or switching to this HT schedule.
    * Most women stop bleeding within 1 year. 

Your doctor may prescribe other medicines if you have severe symptoms or have
a high risk of osteoporosis. For example, you may also take testosterone, a
male hormone, to improve your sex drive.

## Side Effects of Hormone Therapy

HT can have side effects, including:

    * Bloating
    * Breast soreness
    * Headaches
    * Mood swings
    * Nausea
    * Water retention
    * Irregular bleeding 

Tell your doctor if you notice side effects. Changing the dose or type of HT
you take may help reduce these side effects. DO NOT change your dose or stop
taking HT before talking with your doctor.

## When to Call the Doctor

If you have vaginal bleeding or other unusual symptoms during HT, call your
doctor.

Be sure to continue seeing your doctor for regular checkups when taking HT.

## Alternative Names

HRT- types; Estrogen replacement therapy - types; ERT- types of hormone
therapy; Hormone replacement therapy - types; Menopause - types of hormone
therapy; HT - types; Menopausal hormone types

## References

ACOG committee opinion no. 565: Hormone therapy and heart disease. _Obstet
Gynecol_. 2013;121(6):1407-1410. PMID: 23812486
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23812486.

Cosman F, de Beur SJ, LeBoff MS, et al. Clinician's guide to prevention and
treatment of osteoporosis. _Osteoporos Int_. 2014;25(10):2359-2381. PMID:
25182228 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25182228.

de Villiers TJ, Hall JE, Pinkerton JV, et al. Revised global consensus
statement on menopausal hormone therapy. _Climacteric_. 2016;19(4):313-315.
PMID: 27322027 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27322027.

Lobo RA. Menopause and care of the mature woman: endocrinology, consequences
of estrogen deficiency, effects of hormone therapy, and other treatment
options. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive
Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 14.

Stuenkel CA, Davis SR, Gompel A, et al. Treatment of symptoms of the
menopause: an Endocrine Society clinical practice guideline. _J Clin
Endocrinol Metab_. 2015;100(11):3975-4011. PMID: 26444994
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26444994.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Hormone Replacement Therapy
    * Menopause

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

