Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000694.htm    
                                Description: Hormone therapy (HT) uses one or more hormones to treat symptoms of menopause.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Deciding about hormone therapy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000694.htm

# Deciding about hormone therapy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hormone therapy (HT) uses one or more hormones to treat symptoms of menopause.

## Menopause and Hormones

During menopause:

    * A woman's ovaries stop making eggs. They also produce less estrogen and progesterone.
    * Menstrual periods slowly stop over time.
    * Periods may become more closely or more widely spaced. This pattern may last for 1 to 3 years once you start skipping periods. 

Menstrual flow may come to a sudden halt after surgery to remove the ovaries,
chemotherapy, or certain hormone treatments for breast cancer.

Menopause symptoms may last 5 or more years, including:

    * Hot flashes and sweats, usually at their worst for the first 1 to 2 years after your last period
    * Vaginal dryness
    * Mood swings
    * Sleep problems
    * Less interest in sex 

HT can be used to treat menopause symptoms. HT uses the hormones estrogen and
progestin, a type of progesterone. Sometimes testosterone is also added.

Some symptoms of menopause can be managed without HT. Low-dose vaginal
estrogen and vaginal lubricants may help vaginal dryness.

HT comes in the form of a pill, patch, injection, vaginal cream or tablet, or
ring.

Taking hormones can have some risks. When considering HT, learn about how it
can help you.

## Benefits of Hormone Therapy

When taking hormones, hot flashes and night sweats tend to occur less often
and can even go away over time. Slowly reducing HT may make these symptoms
less bothersome.

Hormone therapy can also be very helpful in relieving:

    * Problems sleeping
    * Vaginal dryness
    * Anxiety
    * Moodiness and irritability 

At one time, HT was used to help prevent thinning bones (osteoporosis). That
is no longer the case. Your doctor can prescribe other medicines to treat
osteoporosis.

Studies show that HT does not help treat:

    * Heart disease
    * Urinary incontinence
    * Alzheimer disease
    * Dementia 

## Risks of Hormone Therapy

Be sure to talk with your doctor about the risks for HT. These risks may be
different depending on your age, medical history, and other factors.

BLOOD CLOTS

Taking HT may increase your risk for blood clots. Your risk for blood clots is
also higher if you are obese or if you smoke.

Your risk for blood clots may be lower if you use estrogen skin patches
instead of pills.

Your risk is lower if you use vaginal creams and tablets and the low-dose
estrogen ring.

BREAST CANCER

    * Most experts believe that taking HT for up to 5 years does not increase your risk for breast cancer.
    * Taking estrogen and progestin together for longer than 3 to 5 years may increase your risk for breast cancer, depending on the type of progestin you are prescribed.
    * Taking HT can make the mammogram image of your breasts look cloudy. This can make it hard to find breast cancer early.
    * Taking estrogen alone does not carry as high a risk for breast cancer as estrogen and progestin together. 

ENDOMETRIAL (UTERINE) CANCER

    * Taking estrogen alone increases your risk for endometrial cancer.
    * Taking progestin with estrogen protects against this cancer. If you have a uterus, you should take HT with both estrogen and progestin.
    * You cannot get endometrial cancer if you do not have a uterus. It is safe and recommended to use estrogen alone in this case. 

HEART DISEASE

HT is safest when taken before age 60 or within 10 years after starting
menopause.

    * HT may increase the risk of developing heart disease in older women.
    * HT may increase the risk in women who began using estrogen more than 10 years after their last period. 

STROKE

Women who take only estrogen and who take estrogen with progestin have an
increased risk for stroke. Using the estrogen patch instead of an oral pill
decreases this risk. However, risk may still be increased compared to not
taking any hormones at all. Lower HT dosage also reduces the risk for stroke.

GALLSTONES

Taking HT may increase your risk of developing gallstones.

RISK OF DYING (MORTALITY)

Overall mortality is reduced in women who begin HT in their 50s. The
protection lasts for about 10 years.

## Making a Decision

Every woman is different. Some women aren't bothered by menopause symptoms.
For others, symptoms are severe and affect their lives significantly.

If menopause symptoms bother you, talk to your doctor about the benefits and
risks for HT. You and your doctor can decide if HT is right for you. Your
doctor should know your medical history before prescribing HT.

You should not take HT if you:

    * Have had a stroke or heart attack
    * Have a history of blood clots in your veins or lungs
    * Have had breast or endometrial cancer
    * Have liver disease

Certain lifestyle changes can help you adjust to the changes of menopause
without taking hormones. They can also help protect your bones, improve your
heart health, and help you stay fit.

However, for many women, taking HT is a safe way to treat menopause symptoms.

Currently, experts are unclear on how long you should take HT. Some
professional groups suggest that you can take HT for menopause symptoms for
longer periods if there is no medical reason to discontinue the medicine. For
many women, low doses of HT may be enough to control troublesome symptoms. Low
doses of HT tend to have few side effects.

These are all issues to discuss with your health care provider.

## When to Call the Doctor

If you have vaginal bleeding or other unusual symptoms during HT, call your
doctor.

Be sure to continue seeing your doctor for regular checkups.

## Alternative Names

HRT - deciding; Estrogen replacement therapy - deciding; ERT- deciding;
Hormone replacement therapy - deciding; Menopause - deciding; HT - deciding;
Menopausal hormone therapy - deciding; MHT - deciding

## References

ACOG Committee Opinion No. 565: Hormone therapy and heart disease. _Obstet
Gynecol_. 2013;121(6):1407-1410. PMID: 23812486
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23812486.

Cosman F, de Beur SJ, LeBoff MS, et al. Clinician's guide to prevention and
treatment of osteoporosis. _Osteoporosis Int_. 2014;25(10):2359-2381. PMID:
25182228 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25182228.

de Villiers TJ, Hall JE, Pinkerton JV, et al. Revised Global Consensus
Statement on menopausal hormone therapy. _Climacteric_. 2016;19(4):313-315.
PMID: 27322027 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27322027.

Lobo RA. Menopause and care of the mature woman: endocrinology, consequences
of estrogen deficiency, effects of hormone therapy, and other treatment
options. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive
Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 14.

Stuenkel CA, Davis SR, Gompel A, et al. Treatment of symptoms of the
menopause: an Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guideline. _J Clin
Endocrinol Metab_. 2015;100(11):3975-4011. PMID: 26444994
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26444994.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Hormone Replacement Therapy
    * Menopause

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

