Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000163.htm    
                                Description: Hypertensive heart disease refers to heart problems that occur because of high blood pressure that is present over a long time.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hypertensive heart disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000163.htm

# Hypertensive heart disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hypertensive heart disease refers to heart problems that occur because of high
blood pressure that is present over a long time.

## Causes

High blood pressure means the pressure inside the blood vessels (called
arteries) is too high. As the heart pumps against this pressure, it must work
harder. Over time, this causes the heart muscle to thicken.

Because there are often no symptoms with high blood pressure, people can have
the problem without knowing it. Symptoms most often do not occur until after
many years of poor blood pressure control, when damage to the heart has
occurred.

Without treatment of high blood pressure, symptoms of heart failure may
develop. Sometimes, the muscle can be so thick that it does not get enough
oxygen. This can cause angina (chest pain).

High blood pressure also leads to thickening of the blood vessel walls. When
combined with cholesterol deposits in the blood vessels, the risk of heart
attack and stroke increases.

Hypertensive heart disease is the leading cause of illness and death from high
blood pressure.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have high blood pressure and develop any
symptoms.

## Prevention

Diagnosing high blood pressure early can help prevent heart disease, stroke,
eye problems, and chronic kidney disease.

All adults over the age of 18 should have their blood pressure checked every
year. More frequent measurement may be needed for those with a history of high
blood pressure readings or those with risk factors for high blood pressure.

![Lifestyle changes](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18167.jpg)

Guidelines can change as new information becomes available, Therefore, your
health care provider may recommend more frequent screenings based on your
blood pressure levels and other health conditions.

If your blood pressure is high, you need to lower it and keep it under
control.

    * Do not stop or change high blood pressure medicines without talking to your provider.
    * Carefully control diabetes and high cholesterol. 

## Alternative Names

Hypertension - hypertensive heart; High blood pressure - hypertensive heart

## Patient Instructions

    * Heart failure - what to ask your doctor 
    * High blood pressure - what to ask your doctor 

## Images

    * ![Hypertension](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9699t.jpg)Hypertension
    * ![Lifestyle changes](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18167t.jpg)Lifestyle changes

## References

O'Connor CM, Rogers JG. Heart failure: pathophysiology and diagnosis. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 58.

Siu AL, US Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for high blood pressure
in adults: US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann
Intern Med_. 2015;163(10):778-786. PMID: 26458123
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26458123.

Victor RG. Arterial hypertension. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 67.

Victor RG. Systemic hypertension mechanisms and diagnosis. In: Zipes DP, Libby
P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2019:chap 46.

Whelton PK, Carey RM, Aronow WS, et al. 2017
ACC/AHA/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/AGS/APhA/ASH/ASPC/NMA/PCNA guideline for the prevention,
detection, evaluation, and management of high blood pressure in adults: a
report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task
Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol_.
2018;71(19):e127-e248. PMID: 29146535 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29146535.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.
Editorial update 06-22-18.

![Coronary Artery
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CoronaryArteryDisease_thumb.jpg)Coronary
Artery Disease _Read more_

![Heart Failure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartFailure_thumb.jpg)Heart
Failure _Read more_

![High Blood
Pressure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HighBloodPressure_thumb.jpg)High
Blood Pressure _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

