Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000048.htm    
                                Description: Because of your sickness, you may need to use oxygen to help you breathe. You will need to know how to use and store your oxygen.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Using oxygen at home

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000048.htm

# Using oxygen at home

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Because of your sickness, you may need to use oxygen to help you breathe. You
will need to know how to use and store your oxygen.

## Kinds of Oxygen

Your oxygen will be stored under pressure in tanks or produced by a machine
called an oxygen concentrator.

You can get large tanks to keep in your home and small tanks to take with you
when you go out.

Liquid oxygen is the best kind to use because:

    * It can be moved easily.
    * It takes up less space than oxygen tanks.
    * It is the easiest form of oxygen to transfer to smaller tanks to take with you when you go out.

Be aware that liquid oxygen will slowly run out, even when you are not using
it.

An oxygen concentrator:

    * Makes sure your oxygen supply does not run out.
    * Never has to be refilled.
    * Needs electricity to work. You must have a back-up tank of oxygen gas in case your power goes out. 

Portable, battery-operated concentrators are also available.

## Ways to Breathe the Oxygen

You will need other equipment to use your oxygen. One item is called a nasal
cannula. This plastic tubing wraps over your ears, like eyeglasses, with 2
prongs that fit into your nostrils.

    * Wash the plastic tubing once or twice a week with soap and water, and rinse it well.
    * Replace your cannula every 2 to 4 weeks.
    * If you get a cold or the flu, change the cannula when you're all better.

You may need an oxygen mask. The mask fits over the nose and mouth. It is best
for when you need higher amounts of oxygen or when your nose gets too
irritated from the nasal cannula.

    * Replace your mask every 2 to 4 weeks.
    * If you get a cold or the flu, change the mask when you're all better.

Some people may need a transtracheal catheter. This is a small catheter or
tube placed into your windpipe during a minor surgery. Ask your health care
provider about how to clean the catheter and humidifier bottle.

## Tell Others you use Oxygen at Home

Tell your local fire department, electric company, and telephone company that
you use oxygen in your home.

    * They will restore power sooner to your house or neighborhood if the power goes out.
    * Keep their phone numbers in a place where you can find them easily. 

Tell your family, neighbors, and friends that you use oxygen. They can help
during an emergency.

## Using Oxygen

Using oxygen may make your lips, mouth, or nose dry. Keep them moist with aloe
vera or a water-based lubricant, such as K-Y Jelly. DO NOT use oil-based
products, such as petroleum jelly (Vaseline).

Ask your oxygen equipment provider about foam cushions to protect your ears
from the tubing.

DO NOT stop or change your flow of oxygen. Talk with your provider if you
think you are not getting the right amount.

Take good care of your teeth and gums.

Keep your oxygen far away from open fire (like a gas stove) or any other
heating source.

## Travel and Oxygen

Make sure oxygen will be available for you during your trip. If you plan to
fly with oxygen, tell the airline before your trip that you plan to bring
oxygen. Many airlines have special rules about traveling with oxygen.

## When to Call the Doctor

If you have any of the following symptoms, check your oxygen equipment first.

    * Make sure the connections between the tubes and your oxygen supply are not leaking.
    * Make sure the oxygen is flowing. 

If your oxygen equipment is working well, call your provider if:

    * You are getting a lot of headaches
    * You feel more nervous than usual
    * Your lips or fingernails are blue
    * You feel drowsy or confused
    * Your breathing is slow, shallow, difficult, or irregular 

Call your child's provider if your child is on oxygen and has any of the
following:

    * Breathing faster than usual
    * Flaring nostrils when breathing
    * Making a grunting noise
    * Chest is pulling in with each breath
    * Losing appetite
    * A dusky, gray, or bluish color around the lips, gums, or eyes
    * Is irritable
    * Trouble sleeping
    * Seems short of breath
    * Very limp or weak 

## Alternative Names

Oxygen - home use; COPD - home oxygen; Chronic obstructive airways disease -
home oxygen; Chronic obstructive lung disease - home oxygen; Chronic
bronchitis - home oxygen; Emphysema - home oxygen; Chronic respiratory failure
- home oxygen; Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis - home oxygen; Interstitial lung
disease - home oxygen; Hypoxia - home oxygen; Hospice - home oxygen

## References

American Thoracic Society website. Oxygen therapy.
www.thoracic.org/patients/patient-resources/resources/oxygen-therapy.pdf.
Updated April 2016. Accessed February 28, 2018.

COPD Foundation website. Oxygen therapy. www.copdfoundation.org/Learn-
More/I-am-a-Person-with-COPD/Oxygen.aspx. Updated June 2015. Accessed January
2, 2020.

## Read More

    * Breathing difficulty
    * Bronchiolitis
    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
    * Community-acquired pneumonia in adults
    * Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis
    * Interstitial lung disease
    * Lung surgery

## Patient Instructions

    * Bronchiolitis - discharge
    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease - adults - discharge
    * COPD - control drugs
    * COPD - quick-relief drugs
    * Interstitial lung disease - adults - discharge
    * Lung surgery - discharge 
    * Oxygen safety
    * Pneumonia in adults - discharge
    * Pneumonia in children - discharge
    * Traveling with breathing problems

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update 01/02/2020.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * COPD
    * Chronic Bronchitis
    * Cystic Fibrosis
    * Emphysema
    * Heart Failure
    * Lung Diseases
    * Oxygen Therapy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

