Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007343.htm    
                                Description: A heart positron emission tomography (PET) scan is an imaging test that uses a radioactive substance called a tracer to look for disease or poor blood flow in the heart.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heart PET scan

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007343.htm

# Heart PET scan

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A heart positron emission tomography (PET) scan is an imaging test that uses a
radioactive substance called a tracer to look for disease or poor blood flow
in the heart.

Unlike magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computed tomography (CT), which
reveal the structure of blood flow to and from organs, a PET scan gives more
information about how organs and tissues are working.

A heart PET scan can detect whether areas of your heart muscle are receiving
enough blood, if there is heart damage or scar tissue in the heart, or if
there is a buildup of abnormal substances in the heart muscle.

## How the Test is Performed

A PET scan requires a small amount of radioactive material (tracer).

    * This tracer is given through a vein (IV), most often on the inside of your elbow.
    * It travels through your blood and collects in organs and tissues, including your heart.
    * The tracer helps the radiologist see certain areas or diseases more clearly. 

You will need to wait nearby as the tracer is absorbed by your body. This
takes about 1 hour in most cases.

Then, you will lie on a narrow table, which slides into a large tunnel-shaped
scanner.

    * Electrodes for an electrocardiogram (ECG) will be placed on your chest. The PET scanner detects signals from the tracer.
    * A computer changes the results into 3-D pictures.
    * The images are displayed on a monitor for the radiologist to read. 

You must lie still during the PET scan so that the machine can produce clear
images of your heart.

Sometimes, the test is done in conjunction with stress testing (exercise or
pharmacologic stress).

The test takes about 90 minutes.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You may be asked not to eat anything for 4 to 6 hours before the scan. You
will be able to drink water. Sometimes you may be given a special diet before
the test.

Tell your health care provider if:

    * You are afraid of close spaces (have claustrophobia). You may be given a medicine to help you feel sleepy and less anxious.
    * You are pregnant or think you might be pregnant.
    * You have any allergies to injected dye (contrast).
    * You take insulin for diabetes. You will need special preparation. 

Always tell your provider about the medicines you are taking, including those
bought without a prescription. Sometimes, medicines may interfere with the
test results.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel a sharp sting when the needle containing the tracer is placed
into your vein.

A PET scan causes no pain. The table may be hard or cold, but you can request
a blanket or pillow.

An intercom in the room allows you to speak to someone at any time.

There is no recovery time, unless you were given a medicine to relax.

## Why the Test is Performed

A heart PET scan can reveal the size, shape, position, and some function of
the heart.

It is most often used when other tests, such as echocardiogram (ECG) and
cardiac stress tests do not provide enough information.

This test can be used to diagnose heart problems and show areas in which there
is poor blood flow to the heart.

Several PET scans may be taken over time to determine how well you are
responding to treatment for heart disease.

## Normal Results

If your test involved exercise, a normal test will usually mean that you were
able to exercise for as long or longer than most people of your age and
gender. You also did not have symptoms or changes in blood pressure or your
ECG that caused concern.

There are no problems detected in the size, shape, or function of the heart.
There are no areas in which the radiotracer has abnormally collected.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

    * Coronary artery disease
    * Heart failure or cardiomyopathy

## Risks

The amount of radiation used in a PET scan is low. It is about the same amount
of radiation as in most CT scans. Also, the radiation does not last for very
long in your body.

Women who are pregnant or are breastfeeding should let their provider know
before having this test. Infants and babies developing in the womb are more
sensitive to the effects of radiation because their organs are still growing.

It is possible, although very unlikely, to have an allergic reaction to the
radioactive substance. Some people have pain, redness, or swelling at the
injection site.

## Considerations

It is possible to have false results on a PET scan. Blood sugar or insulin
levels may affect the test results in people with diabetes.

Most PET scans are now performed along with a CT scan. This combination scan
is called a PET/CT.

## Alternative Names

Heart nuclear medicine scan; Heart positron emission tomography; Myocardial
PET scan

## References

Patel NR, Tamara LA. Cardiac positron emission tomography. In: Levine GN, ed.
_Cardiology Secrets_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 9.

Nensa F, Schlosser T. Cardiac positron emission tomography/magnetic resonance.
In: Manning WJ, Pennell DJ, eds. _Cardiovascular Magnetic Resonance_. 3rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 50.

Udelson JE, Dilsizian V, Bonow RO. Nuclear cardiology. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 16.

## Review Date 4/14/2019

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cardiomyopathy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cardiomyopathy2_thumb.jpg)Cardiomyopathy
_Read more_

![Coronary Artery
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CoronaryArteryDisease_thumb.jpg)Coronary
Artery Disease _Read more_

![Heart Failure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartFailure_thumb.jpg)Heart
Failure _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

