Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000365.htm    
                                Description: It is important to talk to your health care providers and your family about the kind of end-of-life care you want when you are being treated for heart failure.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heart failure - palliative care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000365.htm

# Heart failure - palliative care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

It is important to talk to your health care providers and your family about
the kind of end-of-life care you want when you are being treated for heart
failure.

## Making Some Decisions

Chronic heart failure very often gets worse over time. Many people who have
heart failure die of the condition. It can be hard to think and talk about the
type of care you want at the end of your life. However, discussing these
subjects with your doctors and loved ones may help bring you peace of mind.

You may have already discussed heart transplantation and the use of a
ventricular assist device with your doctor.

At some point, you will be faced with the decision about whether to continue
active or aggressive treatment of heart failure. Then, you may want to discuss
the option of palliative or comfort care with your providers and loved ones.

Many people wish to stay in their homes during the end of life period. This is
often possible with the support of loved ones, caregivers, and a hospice
program. You may need to make changes in your home to make life easier and
keep you safe. Hospice units in hospitals and other nursing facilities are
also an option.

Advance care directives are documents that state the type of care you would
like to have if you are unable to speak for yourself.

## Fatigue and Breathlessness

Fatigue and breathlessness are common problems at the end of life. These
symptoms can be distressing.

You may feel short of breath and have trouble breathing. Other symptoms may
include tightness in the chest, feeling as if you are not getting enough air,
or even feeling like you're being smothered.

Family or caregivers can help by:

    * Encouraging the person to sit upright
    * Increasing the airflow in a room by using a fan or opening a window
    * Helping the person relax and not panic 

Using oxygen will help you combat shortness of breath and keep a person with
end-stage heart failure comfortable. Safety measures (such as not smoking) are
very important when using oxygen at home.

Morphine can also help shortness of breath. It is available as a pill, liquid,
or tablet that dissolves under the tongue. Your provider will tell you how to
take morphine.

## Eating and Digestive Symptoms

Symptoms of fatigue, shortness of breath, loss of appetite, and nausea can
make it hard for people with heart failure to take in enough calories and
nutrients. Wasting of muscles and weight loss are part of the natural disease
process.

It can help to eat several small meals. Choosing foods that are appealing and
easy to digest can make it easier to eat.

Caregivers should not try to force a person with heart failure to eat. This
does not help the person live longer and may be uncomfortable.

Talk to your provider about things you can do to help manage nausea or
vomiting and constipation.

## Other Symptoms

Anxiety, fear, and sadness are common among people with end-stage heart
failure.

    * Family and caregivers should look for signs of these problems. Asking the person about his or her feelings and fears can make it easier to discuss them.
    * Morphine can also help with fearfulness and anxiety. Certain antidepressants may also be useful. 

Pain is a common problem in the end stages of many diseases, including heart
failure. Morphine and other pain medicines can help. Common over-the-counter
pain medicines, such as ibuprofen, are often not safe for people with heart
failure.

Some people may have problems with bladder control or bowel function. Talk
with your provider before using any medicines, laxatives, or suppositories for
these symptoms.

## Alternative Names

CHF - palliative; Congestive heart failure - palliative; Cardiomyopathy -
palliative; HF - palliative; Cardiac cachexia; End-of-life-heart failure

## References

Allen LA, Matlock DD. Decision making and palliative care in advanced heart
failure. In: Felker GM, Mann DL, eds. _Heart Failure: A Companion to
Braunwald's Heart Disease_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier, 2020:chap 50.

Allen LA, Stevenson LW. Management of patients with cardiovascular disease
approaching end of life.. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli
GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular
Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2019:chap 31.

Yancy CW, Jessup M, Bozkurt B, et al. 2013 ACCF/AHA guideline for the
management of heart failure: a report of the American College of Cardiology
Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines.
_Circulation_. 2013;128(16):e240-e327. PMID: 23741058
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23741058.

## Review Date 4/14/2019

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Heart Failure

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

