Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000940.htm    
                                Description: Heart failure is a condition that results when the heart is no longer able to effectively pump oxygen-rich blood to the rest of the body to meet the needs of the body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heart failure in children - home care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000940.htm

# Heart failure in children - home care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Heart failure is a condition that results when the heart is no longer able to
effectively pump oxygen-rich blood to the rest of the body to meet the needs
of the body's tissues and organs.

Parents and caregivers, as well as older children with heart failure, must
learn to:

    * Monitor and manage care of heart failure in the home setting.
    * Recognize the symptoms that heart failure is getting worse. 

## Monitoring Your Child at Home

Home monitoring helps you and your child stay on top of your child's heart
failure. Doing so can help catch problems before they get too serious.
Sometimes these simple checks will remind you that your child has been
drinking too much fluid or eating too much salt.

Be sure to write down the results of your child's home checks so that you can
share them with your child's health care provider. You may need to keep a
chart, or the doctor's office may have a "telemonitor," a device you can use
to send your child's information automatically. A nurse will go over your
child's home results with you in a regular phone call.

Throughout the day, watch for these signs or symptoms in your child:

    * Low energy level
    * Shortness of breath when doing everyday activities
    * Clothes or shoes that feel tight
    * Swelling in the ankles or legs
    * Coughing more often or a wet cough
    * Shortness of breath at night 

Weighing your child will help you know if there is too much fluid in their
body. You should:

    * Weigh your child every morning on the same scale upon awakening. Before they eat and after they use the bathroom. Make sure your child wears similar clothing each time.
    * Ask your child's provider what range their weight should stay within.
    * Also call the provider if your child loses a lot of weight. 

## Feeding and Nutrition

Babies and infants' bodies are working extra hard because of heart failure.
Infants may be too tired to drink enough breast milk or formula when feeding.
So they often need extra calories to help them grow. Your child's provider may
suggest a formula that has more calories packed into every ounce. You may need
to keep track of how much formula is taken, and report when your child has
diarrhea. Babies and infants will also need extra nutrition through a feeding
tube.

Older children also may not eat enough due to a decrease in appetite. Even
older children may require a feeding tube, either all of the time, just part
of the day, or when weight loss occurs.

When more severe heart failure is present, your child may need to limit the
amount of salt and total fluids taken in every day.

## Other Self-care Tips

Your child will need to take medicines to treat heart failure. Medicines treat
the symptoms and prevent heart failure from getting worse. It is very
important that your child take the medicine as directed by the health care
team.

These medicines:

    * Help the heart muscle pump better
    * Keep blood from clotting
    * Open up blood vessels or slow the heart rate so the heart does not have to work as hard
    * Reduce damage to the heart
    * Reduce the risk of abnormal heart rhythms
    * Replace potassium
    * Rid the body of excess fluid and salt (sodium) 

Your child should take heart failure medicines as directed. DO NOT allow your
child to take any other drugs or herbs without first asking your child's
provider about them. Common drugs that may make heart failure worse include:

    * Ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin)
    * Naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn) 

If your child requires oxygen at home, you will need to know how to store and
use oxygen. If you are traveling, plan ahead. You will also need to learn
about oxygen safety in the home.

Some children may need to limit or restrict certain activities or sports. Be
sure to discuss this with the provider.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your child's provider if your child:

    * Is tired or weak.
    * Feels short of breath when active or at rest.
    * Has a bluish skin color around the mouth or on the lips and tongue.
    * Is wheezing and having trouble breathing. This is seen more in infants.
    * Has a cough that does not go away. It may be dry and hacking, or it may sound wet and bring up pink, foamy spit.
    * Has swelling in the feet, ankles, or legs.
    * Has gained or lost weight.
    * Has pain and tenderness in the belly.
    * Has a very slow or very fast pulse or heartbeat, or it is not regular.
    * Has blood pressure that is lower or higher than is normal for your child. 

## Alternative Names

Congestive heart failure (CHF) - home monitoring for children; Cor pulmonale -
home monitoring for children; Cardiomyopathy - heart failure home monitoring
for children

## References

American Heart Association. Heart failure in children and adolescents.
www.heart.org/en/health-topics/heart-failure/what-is-heart-failure/heart-
failure-in-children-and-adolescents#. Updated May 31, 2017. Accessed January
20, 2019.

Aydin SI, Sidiqi N, Janson CM, Norris SE, Peek GJ, Beddows KD, Lamour JM, Hsu
DT. Pediatric heart failure and pediatric cardiomyopathies. In: Ungerleider
RM, Meliones JN, McMillan KN, Cooper DS, Jacobs JP, eds. _Critical heart
disease in infants and children_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 72.

Bernstein D. Heart failure. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 442.

Starc TJ, Hayes CJ, Hordof AJ. Cardiology. In: Polin RA, Ditmar MF, eds.
_Pediatric Secrets_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 3.

## Review Date 10/12/2018

Updated by: Scott I. Aydin, MD, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, Albert
Einstein College of Medicine, Division of Pediatric Cardiology and Critical
Care Medicine, The Children's Hospital at Montefiore, Bronx, NY. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Heart Failure

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

