Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000364.htm    
                                Description: Most people who have heart failure need to take medicines. Some of these medicines are used to treat your symptoms. Others may help prevent your heart failure from becoming worse and let you live longer.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heart failure - medicines

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000364.htm

# Heart failure - medicines

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Most people who have heart failure need to take medicines. Some of these
medicines are used to treat your symptoms. Others may help prevent your heart
failure from becoming worse and let you live longer.

## How to Take Your Medicines

You will need to take most of your heart failure medicines every day. Some
medicines are taken once a day. Others need to be taken 2 or more times daily.
It is very important that you take your medicines at the right time and in the
way your doctor has told you.

Never stop taking your heart medicines without talking to your health care
provider first. This is also true for other medicines you take, such as drugs
for diabetes, high blood pressure, and other serious conditions.

Your provider may also tell you to take certain medicines or change your doses
when your symptoms get worse. DO NOT change your medicines or doses without
talking to provider.

Always tell your provider before you take any new medicines. This includes
over-the-counter medicines such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) and naproxen
(Aleve, Naprosyn), as well as drugs such as sildenafil (Viagra), vardenafil
(Levitra), and tadalafil (Cialis).

Also tell your provider before you take any type of herb or supplement.

## ACE Inhibitors and ARBs

ACE inhibitors (angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors) and ARBs
(angiotensin II receptor blockers) work by opening blood vessels and lowering
blood pressure. These medicines can:

    * Reduce the work your heart has to do
    * Help your heart muscle pump better
    * Keep your heart failure from getting worse 

Common side effects of these drugs include:

    * Dry cough
    * Lightheadedness
    * Fatigue
    * Upset stomach
    * Edema
    * Headache
    * Diarrhea 

When you take these medicines, you will need to have blood tests to check how
well your kidneys are working and to measure your potassium levels.

Most of the time, your provider will prescribe either an ACE inhibitor or an
ARB. A new drug class called angiotensin receptor-neprilysin inhibitors
(ARNI's) combines an ARB drug with a new type of drug. ARNI's may be used to
treat heart failure.

## Beta Blockers

Beta blockers slow your heart rate and decrease the strength with which your
heart muscle contracts in the short term. Long term beta blockers help keep
your heart failure from becoming worse. Over time they may also help
strengthen your heart.

Common beta blockers used for heart failure include carvedilol (Coreg),
bisoprolol (Zebeta), and metoprolol (Toprol).

DO NOT abruptly stop taking these drugs. This can increase the risk of angina
and even a heart attack. Other side effects include lightheadedness,
depression, fatigue, and memory loss.

## Water Pills or Diuretics

Diuretics help your body get rid of extra fluid. Some types of diuretics may
also help in other ways. These drugs are often called "water pills." There are
many brands of diuretics. Some are taken once a day. Others are taken 2 times
a day. The most common types are:

    *  **Thiazides.** Chlorothiazide (Diuril), chlorthalidone (Hygroton), indapamide (Lozol), hydrochlorothiazide (Esidrix, HydroDiuril), and metolazone (Mykrox, Zaroxolyn)
    *  **Loop diuretics.** Bumentanide (Bumex), furosemide (Lasix), and torasemide (Demadex)
    *  **Potassium-sparing agents.** Amiloride (Midamor), spironolactone (Aldactone), and triamterene (Dyrenium) 

When you take these medicines, you will need regular blood tests to check how
well your kidneys are working and measure your potassium levels.

## Other Drugs for Heart Failure

Many people with heart disease take either aspirin or clopidogrel (Plavix).
These drugs help prevent blood clots from forming in your arteries. This can
lower your risk of a stroke or heart attack.

Coumadin (Warfarin) is recommended for patients with heart failure who have a
higher risk for blood clots. You will need to have extra blood tests to make
sure your dose is correct. You may also need to make changes to your diet.

Drugs used less commonly for heart failure include:

    * Digoxin to help increase the heart's pumping strength and slow the heart rate.
    * Hydralazine and nitrates to open up arteries and help the heart muscle pump better. These drugs are mainly used by patients who are unable to tolerate ACE inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers.
    * Calcium channel blockers to control blood pressure or angina (chest pain) from coronary artery disease (CAD). 

Statins and other cholesterol-lowering drugs are used when needed.

Antiarrhythmic medicines are sometimes used by heart failure patients who have
abnormal heart rhythms. One such drug is amiodarone.

A new medicine, Ivabradine (Corlanor), acts to lower the heart rate and may
help people with heart failure by reducing the hearts' workload.

## Alternative Names

CHF - medicines; Congestive heart failure - medicines; Cardiomyopathy -
medicines; HF - medicines

## References

Mann DL. Management of patients with heart failure with reduced ejection
fraction. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E,
eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2019:chap 25.

Yancy CW, Jessup M, Bozkurt B, et al. 2017 ACC/AHA/HFSA focused update of the
2013 ACCF/ AHA guideline for the management of heart failure: a report of the
American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on
Clinical Practice Guidelines and the Heart Failure Society of America. _J
Cardiac Failure_. 2017;23(8):628-651. PMID: 28461259
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28461259.

Yancy CW, Jessup M, Bozkurt B, et al. 2013 ACCF/AHA guideline for the
management of heart failure: a report of the American College of Cardiology
Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines.
_Circulation_. 2013;128(16):e240-e327. PMID: 23741058
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23741058.

## Review Date 4/14/2019

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Heart Failure

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

