Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000049.htm    
                                Description: Oxygen makes things burn much faster. Think of what happens when you blow into a fire; it makes the flame bigger. If you are using oxygen in your home, you must take extra care to stay safe.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Oxygen safety

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000049.htm

# Oxygen safety

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Oxygen makes things burn much faster. Think of what happens when you blow into
a fire; it makes the flame bigger. If you are using oxygen in your home, you
must take extra care to stay safe.

## Have Your Home Ready

Make sure you have working smoke detectors and a working fire extinguisher in
your home. If you move around the house with your oxygen, you may need more
than one fire extinguisher in different locations.

Smoking can be very dangerous.

    * No one should smoke in a room where you or your child is using oxygen.
    * Put a "NO SMOKING" sign in every room where oxygen is used.
    * In a restaurant, keep at least 6 feet (2 meters) away from any source of fire, such as a stove, fireplace, or tabletop candle. 

Keep oxygen 6 feet (2 meters) away from:

    * Toys with electric motors
    * Electric baseboard or space heaters
    * Wood stoves, fireplaces, candles
    * Electric blankets
    * Hairdryers, electric razors, and electric toothbrushes 

## Be Careful in the Kitchen

Be careful with your oxygen when you cook.

    * Keep oxygen away from the stove top and oven.
    * Watch out for splattering grease. It can catch fire.
    * Keep children with oxygen away from the stove top and oven.
    * Cooking with a microwave is OK. 

## Other Safety Tips

DO NOT store your oxygen in a trunk, box, or small closet. Storing your oxygen
under the bed is OK if air can move freely under the bed.

Keep liquids that may catch fire away from your oxygen. This includes cleaning
products that contain oil, grease, alcohol, or other liquids that can burn.

DO NOT use Vaseline or other petroleum-based creams and lotions on your face
or upper part of your body unless you talk to your respiratory therapist or
doctor first. Products that are safe include:

    * Aloe vera
    * Water-based products, such as K-Y Jelly

Avoid tripping over oxygen tubing.

    * Try taping the tubing to the back of your shirt.
    * Teach children not to get tangled in the tubing.

## Alternative Names

COPD - oxygen safety; Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease - oxygen safety;
Chronic obstructive airways disease - oxygen safety; Emphysema - oxygen
safety; Heart failure - oxygen-safety; Palliative care - oxygen safety;
Hospice - oxygen safety

## References

American Thoracic Society website. Oxygen therapy.
www.thoracic.org/patients/patient-resources/resources/oxygen-therapy.pdf.
Updated April 2016. Accessed February 28, 2018.

COPD Foundation website. Oxygen therapy. www.copdfoundation.org/What-is-
COPD/Living-with-COPD/Oxygen-Therapy.aspx. Updated June 2015. Accessed
February 28, 2018.

National Fire Protection Association website. Medical oxygen safety.
www.nfpa.org/-/media/Files/Public-Education/Resources/Safety-tip-
sheets/OxygenSafety.ashx. Updated July 2016. AccessedÂ January 21, 2019.

## Read More

    * Breathing difficulty
    * Bronchiolitis
    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
    * Community-acquired pneumonia in adults
    * Interstitial lung disease
    * Lung surgery
    * Pediatric heart surgery

## Patient Instructions

    * Bronchiolitis - discharge
    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease - adults - discharge
    * COPD - control drugs
    * COPD - quick-relief drugs
    * Interstitial lung disease - adults - discharge
    * Lung surgery - discharge 
    * Pediatric heart surgery - discharge
    * Pneumonia in adults - discharge
    * Pneumonia in children - discharge
    * Traveling with breathing problems
    * Using oxygen at home
    * Using oxygen at home - what to ask your doctor 

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. 01-21-19: Editorial update.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Acute Bronchitis
    * COPD
    * Chronic Bronchitis
    * Cystic Fibrosis
    * Emphysema
    * Heart Failure
    * Lung Diseases
    * Oxygen Therapy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

