Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000363.htm    
                                Description: The main treatments for heart failure are making lifestyle changes and taking your medicines. However, there are procedures and surgeries that may help.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heart failure - surgeries and devices

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000363.htm

# Heart failure - surgeries and devices

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The main treatments for heart failure are making lifestyle changes and taking
your medicines. However, there are procedures and surgeries that may help.

## Pacemakers and Defibrillators

A heart pacemaker is a small, battery-operated device that sends a signal to
your heart. The signal makes your heart beat at the correct pace.

![Pacemaker](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19566.jpg)

Pacemakers may be used:

    * To correct abnormal heart rhythms. The heart may beat too slowly, too fast, or in an irregular manner.
    * To better coordinate the beating of the heart in people with heart failure. These are called biventricular pacemakers. 

When your heart is weakened, gets too large, and does not pump blood very
well, you are at high risk for abnormal heartbeats that can lead to sudden
cardiac death.

    * An implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) is a device that detects heart rhythms. It quickly sends an electrical shock to the heart to change the rhythm back to normal.
    * Most biventricular pacemakers can also work as implantable cardio-defibrillators (ICD). 

## Procedures and Surgery to Improve Blood Supply to the Heart

The most common cause of heart failure is coronary artery disease (CAD), which
is a narrowing of the small blood vessels that supply blood and oxygen to the
heart. CAD may become worse and make it harder to manage your symptoms.

![Coronary artery
disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200082t.gif)Watch this
video about:Coronary artery disease

After performing certain tests your health care provider may feel that opening
a narrowed or blocked blood vessel will improve your heart failure symptoms.
Suggested procedures may include:

    * Angioplasty and stent placement
    * Heart bypass surgery

## Heart Valve Surgery

Blood that flows between the chambers of your heart, or out of your heart into
the aorta, must pass through a heart valve. These valves open enough to allow
blood to flow through. They then close, keeping blood from flowing backward.

When these valves do not work well (become too leaky or too narrow), blood
does not flow correctly through the heart to the body. This problem may cause
heart failure or make heart failure worse.

Heart valve surgery may be needed to repair or replace one of the valves.

## Surgery for End-stage Heart Failure

Some types of surgery are done for severe heart failure when other treatments
no longer work. These procedures are often used when a person is waiting for a
heart transplant. They are also sometimes used long term in cases when
transplant is not planned or possible.

Examples of some of these devices include left ventricular assist device
(LVAD), right ventricular assist devices (RVAD) or a total artificial hearts.
They are considered for use if you have severe heart failure that cannot be
controlled with medicine or a special pacemaker.

    * Ventricular assist devices (VAD) help your heart pump blood from the pumping chambers of your heart to either the lungs or to the rest of your body These pumps may be implanted in your body or connected to a pump outside your body.
    * You may be on a waiting list for a heart transplant. Some patients who get a VAD are very ill and may already be on a heart-lung bypass machine.
    * Total artificial hearts are being developed, but are not yet in wide use. 

Devices inserted thru a catheter such as intra-aortic balloon pumps (IABP) are
sometimes used.

    * An IABP is a thin balloon that is inserted into an artery (most often in the leg) and threaded into the main artery exiting the heart (aorta). 
    * These devices can help maintain heart function in the short term. Because they can be placed quickly, they are useful for patients who have a sudden and severe decline in heart function 
    * They are used in people who are waiting for recovery or for more advanced assist devices. 

## Alternative Names

CHF - surgery; Congestive heart failure - surgery; Cardiomyopathy - surgery;
HF - surgery; Intra-aortic balloon pumps - heart failure; IABP - heart
failure; Catheter based assist devices - heart failure

## Images

    * ![Pacemaker](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23220t.jpg)Pacemaker

## References

Aaronson KD, Pagani FD. Mechanical circulatory support. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 29.

Allen LA, Stevenson LW. Management of patients with cardiovascular disease
approaching end of life. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli
GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular
Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 31.

Ewald GA, Milano CA, Rogers JG. Circulatory assist devices in heart failure.
In: Felker GM, Mann DL, eds. _Heart Failure: A Companion to Braunwald's Heart
Disease_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier, 2020:chap 45.

Mann DL. Management of heart failure patients with reduced ejection fraction.
In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 25.

Otto CM, Bonow RO. Approach to the patient with valvular heart disease. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 67.

Rihal CS, Naidu SS, Givertz MM, et al; Society for Cardiovascular Angiography
and Interventions (SCAI); Heart Failure Society of America (HFSA); Society of
Thoracic Surgeons (STS); American Heart Association (AHA), and American
College of Cardiology (ACC). 2015 SCAI/ACC/HFSA/STS clinical expert consensus
statement on the use of percutaneous mechanical circulatory support devices in
cardiovascular care (endorsed by the American Heart Association, the
Cardiological Society of India, and Sociedad Latino Americana de CardiologÃ­a
Intervencionista; affirmation of value by the Canadian Association of
Interventional Cardiology-Association Canadienne de Cardiologie
d'intervention). _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2015;65(19):e7-26. PMID: 25861963
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25861963.

Yancy CW, Jessup M, Bozkurt B, et al. 2013 ACCF/AHA guideline for the
management of heart failure: a report of the American College of Cardiology
Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on practice guidelines.
_Circulation_. 2013;128(16):e240-e327. PMID: 23741058
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23741058.

## Review Date 4/14/2019

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Heart Failure
    * Pacemakers and Implantable Defibrillators

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

