Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003624.htm    
                                Description: Pleural fluid analysis is a test that examines a sample of fluid that has collected in the pleural space. This is the space between the lining of the outside of the lungs (pleura) and the wall of the chest.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pleural fluid analysis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003624.htm

# Pleural fluid analysis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pleural fluid analysis is a test that examines a sample of fluid that has
collected in the pleural space. This is the space between the lining of the
outside of the lungs (pleura) and the wall of the chest. When fluid collects
in the pleural space, the condition is called pleural effusion.

## How the Test is Performed

A procedure called thoracentesis is used to get a sample of pleural fluid. The
health care provider examines the sample to look for:

    * Cancerous (malignant) cells
    * Other types of cells (for example blood cells)
    * Levels of glucose, protein and other chemicals
    * Bacteria, fungi, viruses, and other germs that can cause infections
    * Inflammation 

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is needed before the test. An ultrasound, CT scan, or
chest x-ray will be performed before and after the test.

DO NOT cough, breathe deeply, or move during the test to avoid injury to the
lung.

Tell your provider if you take medicines to thin the blood.

## How the Test will Feel

For thoracentesis, you sit on the edge of a chair or bed with your head and
arms resting on a table. The provider cleans the skin around the insertion
site. Numbing medicine (anesthetic) is injected into the skin.

A needle is placed through the skin and muscles of the chest wall into the
pleural space. As fluid drains into a collection bottle, you may cough a bit.
This is because your lung re-expands to fill the space where fluid had been.
This sensation lasts for a few hours after the test.

During the test, tell your provider if you have sharp chest pain or shortness
of breath.

The provider may use ultrasound to get a better view of the fluid in your
chest.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is performed to determine the cause of a pleural effusion. It is also
done to relieve the shortness of breath that a large pleural effusion can
cause.

## Normal Results

Normally the pleural cavity contains less than 20 milliliters (4 teaspoons) of
clear, yellowish (serous) fluid.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may indicate possible causes of pleural effusion, such as:

    * Cancer
    * Cirrhosis
    * Heart failure
    * Infection
    * Severe malnutrition
    * Trauma
    * Abnormal connections between the pleural space and other organs (for example, the esophagus) 

If the provider suspects an infection, a culture of the fluid is done to check
for bacteria and other microbes.

The test may also be performed for hemothorax. This is a collection of blood
in the pleura.

## Risks

Risks of thoracentesis are:

    * Collapsed lung (pneumothorax)
    * Excessive loss of blood
    * Fluid re-accumulation
    * Infection
    * Pulmonary edema
    * Respiratory distress
    * Cough that doesn't go away

Serious complications are uncommon.

## References

Broaddus VC, Light RW. Pleural effusion. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD,
et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 79.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Thoracentesis - diagnostic. In: Chernecky CC, Berger
BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier Saunders; 2013:1068-1070.

## Review Date 10/23/2017

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron Jr. Associate Professor
of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School of
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by David
Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cancer_thumb.jpg)Cancer _Read more_

![Cirrhosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cirrhosis2_thumb.jpg)Cirrhosis
_Read more_

![Heart Failure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartFailure_thumb.jpg)Heart
Failure _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

