Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000112.htm    
                                Description: Heart failure is a condition in which the heart is no longer able to pump oxygen-rich blood to the rest of the body efficiently. This causes fluid to build up in your body. Limiting how much you drink    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heart failure - fluids and diuretics

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000112.htm

# Heart failure - fluids and diuretics

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Heart failure is a condition in which the heart is no longer able to pump
oxygen-rich blood to the rest of the body efficiently. This causes fluid to
build up in your body. Limiting how much you drink and how much salt (sodium)
you take in can help prevent these symptoms.

## What to Expect at Home

When you have heart failure, your heart does not pump out enough blood. This
causes fluids to build up in your body. If you drink too many fluids, you may
get symptoms such as swelling, weight gain, and shortness of breath. Limiting
how much you drink and how much salt (sodium) you take in can help prevent
these symptoms.

Your family members can help you take care of yourself. They can keep an eye
on how much you drink. They can make sure you are taking your medicines the
right way. And they can learn to recognize your symptoms early.

Your health care provider may ask you to lower the amount of fluids you drink:

    * When your heart failure is not very bad, you may not have to limit your fluids too much.
    * As your heart failure gets worse, you may need to limit fluids to 6 to 9 cups (1.5 to 2 liters) a day.

## Tips to Limit Fluids

Remember, some foods, such as soups, puddings, gelatin, ice cream, popsicles
and others contain fluids. When you eat chunky soups, use a fork if you can,
and leave the broth behind.

Use a small cup at home for your liquids at meals, and drink just 1 cupful
(240 mL). After drinking 1 cup (240 mL) of fluid at a restaurant, turn your
cup over to let your server know you DO NOT want more. Find ways to keep from
getting too thirsty:

    * When you are thirsty, chew some gum, rinse your mouth with cold water and spit it out, or suck on something such as hard candy, a slice of lemon, or small pieces of ice.
    * Stay cool. Getting overheated will make you thirsty. 

If you have trouble keeping track of it, write down how much you are drinking
during the day.

Eating too much salt can make you thirsty, which can make you drink too much.
Extra salt also makes more fluid stay in your body. Many foods contain "hidden
salt," including prepared, canned and frozen foods. Learn how to eat a low-
salt diet.

## Diuretics

Diuretics help your body get rid of extra fluid. They are often called "water
pills." There are many brands of diuretics. Some are taken 1 time a day.
Others are taken 2 times a day. The three common types are:

    * Thiazides: Chlorothiazide (Diuril), chlorthalidone (Hygroton), indapamide (Lozol), hydrochlorothiazide (Esidrix, HydroDiuril), and metolazone (Mykrox, Zaroxolyn)
    * Loop diuretics: Bumetanide (Bumex), furosemide (Lasix), and torsemide (Demadex)
    * Potassium-sparing agents: Amiloride (Midamor), spironolactone (Aldactone), and triamterene (Dyrenium)

There are also diuretics that contain a combination of two of the drugs above.

When you are taking diuretics, you will need to have regular checkups so that
your provider can check your potassium levels and monitor how your kidneys are
working.

Diuretics make you urinate more often. Try not to take them at night before
you go to bed. Take them at the same time every day.

Common side effects of diuretics are:

    * Fatigue, muscle cramps, or weakness from low potassium levels
    * Dizziness or lightheadedness
    * Numbness or tingling
    * Heart palpitations, or a "fluttery" heartbeat
    * Gout
    * Depression
    * Irritability
    * Urinary incontinence (not being able to hold your urine)
    * Loss of sex drive (from potassium-sparing diuretics), or inability to have an erection
    * Hair growth, menstrual changes, and a deepening voice in women (from potassium-sparing diuretics)
    * Breast swelling in men or breast tenderness in women (from potassium-sparing diuretics)
    * Allergic reactions -- if you are allergic to sulfa drugs, you should not use thiazides.

Be sure to take your diuretic the way you have been told.

## Weighing Yourself Regularly

You will get to know what weight is right for you. Weighing yourself will help
you know if there is too much fluid in your body. You might also find that
your clothes and shoes are feeling tighter than normal when there is too much
fluid in your body.

Weigh yourself every morning on the same scale when you get up -- before you
eat and after you use the bathroom. Make sure you are wearing similar clothing
each time you weigh yourself. Write down your weight every day on a chart so
that you can keep track of it.

Call your provider if your weight goes up by more than 2 to 3 pounds (1 to 1.5
kilograms, kg) in a day or 5 pounds (2 kg) in a week. Also call your provider
if you lose a lot of weight.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * You are tired or weak.
    * You feel short of breath when you are active or when you are at rest.
    * You feel short of breath when you lie down, or an hour or two after falling asleep.
    * You are wheezing and having trouble breathing.
    * You have a cough that does not go away. It may be dry and hacking, or it may sound wet and bring up pink, foamy spit.
    * You have swelling in your feet, ankles, or legs.
    * You have to urinate a lot, particularly at night.
    * You have gained or lost weight.
    * You have pain and tenderness in your belly.
    * You have symptoms that you think might be from your medicines.
    * Your pulse, or heartbeat, gets very slow or very fast, or it is not steady. 

## Alternative Names

HF - fluids and diuretics; CHF - ICD discharge; Cardiomyopathy - ICD discharge

## References

Eckel RH, Jakicic JM, Ard JD, et al. 2013 AHA/ACC guideline on lifestyle
management to reduce cardiovascular risk: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on practice guidelines. _J Am
Coll Cardiol_. 2014;63(25 Pt B):2960-2984. PMID: 2423992
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24239922.

Mann DL. Management of patients with heart failure with reduced ejection
fraction. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E,
eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 25.

Yancy CW, Jessup M, Bozkurt B, et al. 2017 ACC/AHA/HFSA focused update of the
2013 ACCF/ AHA guideline for the management of heart failure: a report of the
American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on
Clinical Practice Guidelines and the Heart Failure Society of America.
_Circulation_. 2017;136(6):e137-e161. PMID: 28455343
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28455343.

Zile MR, Litwin SE. Heart failure with a preserved ejection fraction. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 26.

## Read More

    * Coronary heart disease
    * Heart failure - overview
    * High blood cholesterol levels
    * High blood pressure - adults

## Patient Instructions

    * Aspirin and heart disease
    * Cholesterol and lifestyle
    * Controlling your high blood pressure
    * Fast food tips
    * Heart failure - discharge
    * Heart failure - home monitoring
    * Heart failure - what to ask your doctor 
    * Low-salt diet 

## Review Date 7/25/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Heart Failure

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

