Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000165.htm    
                                Description: Digitalis is a medicine that is used to treat certain heart conditions. Digitalis toxicity can be a side effect of digitalis therapy. It may occur when you take too much of the drug at one time. It can    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Digitalis toxicity

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000165.htm

# Digitalis toxicity

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Digitalis is a medicine that is used to treat certain heart conditions.
Digitalis toxicity can be a side effect of digitalis therapy. It may occur
when you take too much of the drug at one time. It can also occur when levels
of the drug build up for other reasons such as other medical problems you
have.

The most common prescription form of this medicine is called digoxin.
Digitoxin is another form of digitalis.

## Causes

Digitalis toxicity can be caused by high levels of digitalis in the body. A
lower tolerance to the drug can also cause digitalis toxicity. People with
lower tolerance may have a normal level of digitalis in their blood. They may
develop digitalis toxicity if they have other risk factors.

People with heart failure who take digoxin are commonly given medicines called
diuretics. This drugsÂ remove excess fluid from the body. Many diuretics can
cause potassium loss. A low level of potassium in the body can increase the
risk of digitalis toxicity. Digitalis toxicity may also develop in people who
take digoxin and have a low level of magnesium in their body.

You are more likely to have this condition if you take digoxin, digitoxin, or
other digitalis medicines along with drugs that interact with it. Some of
these drugs are quinidine, flecainide, verapamil, and amiodarone.

If your kidneys do not work well, digitalis can build up in your body.
Normally, it is removed through the urine. Any problem that affects how your
kidneys work (including dehydration) makes digitalis toxicity more likely.

Some plants contain chemicals that can cause symptoms similar to digitalis
toxicity if they are eaten. These include foxglove, oleander, and lily of the
valley.

![Foxglove \(Digitalis
purpurea\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/3075.jpg)

## Symptoms

These are symptoms of digitalis toxicity:

    * Confusion
    * Irregular pulse
    * Loss of appetite
    * Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea
    * Fast heartbeat
    * Vision changes (unusual), including blind spots, blurred vision, changes in how colors look, or seeing spots

Other symptoms may include:

    * Decreased consciousness
    * Decreased urine output
    * Difficulty breathing when lying down
    * Excessive nighttime urination
    * Overall swelling

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine you.

Your heart rate may be rapid, or slow and irregular.

An ECG is done to check for irregular heartbeats.

Blood tests that will be done include:

    * Blood chemistry
    * Kidney function tests, including BUN and creatinine
    * Digitoxin and digoxin test to check levels
    * Potassium level
    * Magnesium level 

## Treatment

If the person has stopped breathing, call 911 or your local emergency number,
then start CPR.

If the person is having trouble breathing, call 911 or your local emergency
number.

At the hospital, symptoms will be treated as appropriate.

Digitoxin blood level may be lowered with repeated doses of charcoal, given
after gastric lavage.

Methods to cause vomiting are usually not done because vomiting can worsen
slow heart rhythms.

In severe cases, medicines called digoxin-specific antibodies may be
prescribed. Dialysis may be needed to reduce the level of digitalis in the
body.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does depends on the severity of the toxicity and if it has
caused an irregular heart rhythm.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Irregular heart rhythms, which may be deadly
    * Heart failure

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you are taking a digitalis medicine and you have
symptoms of toxicity.

## Prevention

If you take digitalis medicine, you should have your blood level checked
regularly. Blood tests should also be done to check for conditions that make
this toxicity more common.

Potassium supplements may be prescribed if you take diuretics and digitalis
together. A potassium-sparing diuretic may also be prescribed.

## Images

    * ![Foxglove \(Digitalis purpurea\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/3075t.jpg)Foxglove (Digitalis purpurea)

## References

Cole JB. Cardiovascular drugs. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, et
al, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 147.

Goldberger AL, Goldberger ZD, Shvilkin A. Digitalis toxicity. In: Goldberger
AL, Goldberger ZD, Shvilkin A, eds. _Goldberger's Clinical
Electrocardiography_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 20.

Nelson LS, Ford MD. Acute poisoning. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 110.

Waller DG, Sampson AP. Heart failure. In: Waller DG, Sampson AP, eds. _Medical
Pharmacology and Therapeutics_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
7.

## Review Date 4/14/2019

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Arrhythmia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Arrhythmia_thumb.jpg)Arrhythmia
_Read more_

![Atrial
Fibrillation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AtrialFib_thumb.jpg)Atrial
Fibrillation _Read more_

![Heart Failure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartFailure_thumb.jpg)Heart
Failure _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

