Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000114.htm    
                                Description: Heart failure is a condition in which the heart is no longer able to pump oxygen-rich blood to the rest of the body efficiently. When symptoms become severe, a hospital stay may be necessary. This articles    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heart failure - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000114.htm

# Heart failure - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Heart failure is a condition in which the heart is no longer able to pump
oxygen-rich blood to the rest of the body efficiently. When symptoms become
severe, a hospital stay may be necessary. This articles discusses what you
need to do to take care of yourself when you leave the hospital.

## When you Were in the Hospital

You were in the hospital to have your heart failure treated. Heart failure
occurs when the muscles of your heart are weak or have trouble relaxing, or
both.

Your heart is a pump that moves fluids through your body. As with any pump, if
the flow out of the pump is not enough, fluids do not move well and they get
stuck in places they should not be. In your body, this means that fluid
collects in your lungs, abdomen, and legs.

While you were in the hospital:

    * Your health care team closely adjusted the fluids you drank or received through an intravenous (IV) line. They also watched and measured how much urine you produced.
    * You may have received medicines to help your body get rid of extra fluids.
    * You may have had tests to check how well your heart was working. 

## What to Expect at Home

Your energy will slowly return. You may need help taking care of yourself when
you first get home. You may feel sad or depressed. All of these things are
normal.

## Checking Yourself at Home

Weigh yourself every morning on the same scale when you get up -- before you
eat but after you use the bathroom. Make sure you are wearing similar clothing
each time you weigh yourself. Write down your weight every day on a chart so
that you can keep track of it.

Throughout the day, ask yourself:

    * Is my energy level normal?
    * Do I get more short of breath when I am doing my everyday activities?
    * Are my clothes or shoes feeling tight?
    * Are my ankles or legs swelling?
    * Am I coughing more often? Does my cough sound wet?
    * Do I get short of breath at night or when I lie down?

If you are having new (or different) symptoms, ask yourself:

    * Did I eat something different than usual or try a new food?
    * Did I take all of my medicines the right way at the right times? 

## Diet and Fluids

Your health care provider may ask you to limit how much you drink.

    * When your heart failure is not very severe, you may not have to limit your fluids too much.
    * As your heart failure gets worse, you may be asked to limit fluids to 6 to 9 cups (1.5 to 2 liters) a day. 

You will need to eat less salt. Salt can make you thirsty, and being thirsty
can cause you to drink too much fluid. Extra salt also makes fluid stay in
your body. Lots of foods that DO NOT taste salty, or that you DO NOT add salt
to, still contain a lot of salt.

You may need to take a diuretic, or water pill.

DO NOT drink alcohol. Alcohol makes it harder for your heart muscles to work.
Ask your provider what to do on special occasions where alcohol and foods you
are trying to avoid will be served.

If you smoke, stop. Ask for help quitting if you need it. DO NOT let anybody
smoke in your home.

Learn more about what you should eat to make your heart and blood vessels
healthier.

    * Avoid fatty foods.
    * Stay away from fast-food restaurants.
    * Avoid some prepared and frozen foods.
    * Learn fast food tips. 

Try to stay away from things that are stressful for you. If you feel stressed
all the time, or if you are very sad, talk with your provider who can refer
you to a counselor.

## Taking Your Heart Drugs

Have your entire drug prescriptions filled before you go home. It is very
important that you take your drugs the way your provider told you to. DO NOT
take any other drugs or herbs without asking your provider about them first.

Take your drugs with water. DO NOT take them with grapefruit juice, since it
may change how your body absorbs certain medicines. Ask your provider or
pharmacist if this will be a problem for you.

The drugs below are given to many people who have heart failure. Sometimes
there is a reason they may not be safe to take, though. These drugs may help
protect your heart. Talk with your provider if you are not already on any of
these drugs:

    * Antiplatelet drugs (blood thinners) such as aspirin, clopidogrel (Plavix), or warfarin (Coumadin) to help keep your blood from clotting
    * Beta blocker and ACE inhibitor medicines to lower your blood pressure
    * Statins or other drugs to lower your cholesterol

Talk to your provider before changing the way you take your medicines. Never
just stop taking these drugs for your heart, or any drugs you may be taking
for Diabetes, high blood pressure, or other medical conditions you have.

If you are taking a blood thinner, such as warfarin (Coumadin), you will need
to have extra blood tests to make sure your dose is correct.

## Activity

Your provider may refer you to cardiac rehabilitation program. There, you will
learn how to slowly increase your exercise and how to take care of your heart
disease. Make sure you avoid heavy lifting.

Make sure you know the warning signs of heart failure and of a heart attack.
Know what to do when you have chest pain, or angina.

Always ask your provider before starting sexual activity again. DO NOT take
sildenafil (Viagra), or vardenafil (Levitra), tadalafil (Cialis), or any
herbal remedy for erection problems without checking first.

Make sure your home is set up to be safe and easy for you for you to move
around in and avoid falls.

If you are unable to walk around very much, ask your provider for exercises
you can do while you are sitting.

## Follow-up

Make sure you get a flu shot every year. You may also need a pneumonia shot.
Ask your provider about this.

Your provider may call you to see how you are doing and to make sure you are
checking your weight and taking your medicines.

You will need follow-up appointments at your provider's office.

You will likely need to have certain lab tests to check your sodium and
potassium levels and monitor how your kidneys are working.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * You gain more than 2 pounds (lb) (1 kilogram, kg) in a day, or 5 lb (2 kg) in a week.
    * You are very tired and weak.
    * You are dizzy and lightheaded.
    * You are more short of breath when you are doing your normal activities.
    * You have new shortness of breath when you are sitting.
    * You need to sit up or use more pillows at night because you are short of breath when you are lying down.
    * You wake up 1 to 2 hours after falling asleep because you are short of breath.
    * You are wheezing and having trouble breathing.
    * You feel pain or pressure in your chest.
    * You have a cough that does not go away. It may be dry and hacking, or it may sound wet and bring up pink, foamy spit.
    * Your have swelling in your feet, ankles or legs.
    * You have to urinate a lot, particularly at night.
    * You have stomach pain and tenderness.
    * You have symptoms that you think may be from your medicines.
    * Your pulse, or heartbeat, gets very slow or very fast, or it is not steady.

## Alternative Names

Congestive heart failure - discharge; CHF - discharge; HF - discharge

## References

Eckel RH, Jakicic JM, Ard JD, et al. 2013 AHA/ACC guideline on lifestyle
management to reduce cardiovascular risk: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on practice guidelines. _J Am
Coll Cardiol_. 2014;63(25 Pt B):2960-2984. PMID: 2423992
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24239922.

Mann DL. Management of heart failure patients with reduced ejection fraction.
In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 25.

Yancy CW, Jessup M, Bozkurt B, et al. 2017 ACC/AHA/HFSA focused update of the
2013 ACCF/ AHA guideline for the management of heart failure: a report of the
American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on
Clinical Practice Guidelines and the Heart Failure Society of America.
_Circulation_. 2017;136(6):e137-e161. PMID: 28455343
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28455343.

Zile MR, Litwin SE. Heart failure with a preserved ejection fraction. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 26.

## Read More

    * Angina
    * Atherosclerosis
    * Cardiac ablation procedures 
    * Coronary heart disease
    * Heart failure - overview
    * Heart pacemaker
    * High blood pressure - adults
    * Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator
    * Tips on how to quit smoking
    * Ventricular assist device

## Patient Instructions

    * ACE inhibitors
    * Angina - when you have chest pain
    * Antiplatelet drugs - P2Y12 inhibitors
    * Aspirin and heart disease
    * Being active when you have heart disease
    * Butter, margarine, and cooking oils
    * Cholesterol and lifestyle
    * Controlling your high blood pressure
    * Dietary fats explained
    * Fast food tips
    * Heart disease - risk factors
    * Heart failure - fluids and diuretics
    * Heart failure - home monitoring
    * Heart failure - what to ask your doctor 
    * High blood pressure - what to ask your doctor 
    * How to read food labels
    * Implantable cardioverter defibrillator - discharge
    * Low-salt diet 
    * Mediterranean diet
    * Taking warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven) - what to ask your doctor
    * Taking warfarin (Coumadin)

## Review Date 7/25/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Heart Failure

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

