Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000129.htm    
                                Description: Cor pulmonale is a condition that causes the right side of the heart to fail. Long-term high blood pressure in the arteries of the lung and right ventricle of the heart can lead to cor pulmonale.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cor pulmonale

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000129.htm

# Cor pulmonale

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cor pulmonale is a condition that causes the right side of the heart to fail.
Long-term high blood pressure in the arteries of the lung and right ventricle
of the heart can lead to cor pulmonale.

## Causes

High blood pressure in the arteries of the lungs is called pulmonary
hypertension. It is the most common cause of cor pulmonale.

In people who have pulmonary hypertension, changes in the small blood vessels
inside the lungs can lead to increased blood pressure in the right side of the
heart. This makes it harder for the heart to pump blood to the lungs. If this
high pressure continues, it puts a strain on the right side of the heart. That
strain can cause cor pulmonale.

Lung conditions that cause a low blood oxygen level in the blood over a long
time can also lead to cor pulmonale. Some of these are:

    * Autoimmune diseases that damage the lungs, such as scleroderma
    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
    * Chronic blood clots in the lungs
    * Cystic fibrosis (CF)
    * Scarring of the lung tissue (interstitial lung disease)
    * Severe curving of the upper part of the spine (kyphoscoliosis)
    * Obstructive sleep apnea, which causes stops in breathing because of airway inflammation
    * Idiopathic (no specific cause) tightening (constriction) of the blood vessels of the lungs

## Symptoms

Shortness of breath or lightheadedness during activity is often the first
symptom of cor pulmonale. You may also have a fast heartbeat and feel like
your heart is pounding.

Over time, symptoms occur with lighter activity or even while you are at rest.
Symptoms you may have are:

    * Fainting spells during activity
    * Chest discomfort, usually in the front of the chest
    * Chest pain
    * Swelling of the feet or ankles
    * Symptoms of lung disorders, such as wheezing or coughing or phlegm production
    * Bluish lips and fingers (cyanosis)

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
symptoms. The exam may find:

    * Fluid buildup in your belly
    * Abnormal heart sounds
    * Bluish skin
    * Liver swelling
    * Swelling of the neck veins, which is a sign of high pressure in the right side of the heart
    * Ankle swelling 

These tests may help diagnose cor pulmonale as well as its cause:

    * Blood antibody tests
    * Blood test to check for a substance called brain natriuretic peptide (BNP)
    * Chest x-ray
    * CT scan of the chest, with or without an injection of a contrast fluid (dye)
    * Echocardiogram
    * ECG
    * Lung biopsy (rarely done)
    * Measurement of blood oxygen by checking arterial blood gas (ABG)
    * Pulmonary (lung) function tests
    * Right heart catheterization
    * Ventilation and perfusion scan of the lungs (V/Q scan)
    * Tests for autoimmune lung disease

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to control symptoms. It is important to treat medical
problems that cause pulmonary hypertension, because they can lead to cor
pulmonale.

Many treatment options are available. In general, the cause of your cor
pulmonale will determine which treatment you receive.

If yourÂ provider prescribes medicines, you may take them by mouth (oral),
receive them through a vein (intravenous or IV), or breathe them in (inhaled).
You will be closely monitored during treatment to watch for side effects and
to see how well the medicine works for you. Never stop taking your medicines
without first talking to your doctor.

Other treatments may include:

    * Blood thinners to reduce the risk of blood clots
    * Medicines to manage heart failure symptoms
    * Oxygen therapy at home
    * A lung or heart-lung transplant, if medicine does not work 

Important tips to follow:

    * Avoid strenuous activities and heavy lifting.
    * Avoid traveling to high altitudes.
    * Get a yearly flu vaccine, as well as other vaccines, such as the pneumonia vaccine.
    * If you smoke, stop.
    * Use oxygen if your doctor prescribes it.
    * Women shouldÂ not get pregnant.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well you do depends on the cause of your cor pulmonale.

As your illness gets worse, you will need to make changes to your home so that
you can manage as well as possible. You will also need help around your house.

## Possible Complications

Cor pulmonale may lead to:

    * Life-threatening shortness of breath
    * Severe fluid buildup in your body
    * Shock
    * Death

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call yourÂ provider if you have shortness of breath or chest pain.

## Prevention

Do not smoke. Smoking causes lung disease, which can lead to cor pulmonale.

## Alternative Names

Right-sided heart failure; Pulmonary heart disease

## Patient Instructions

    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease - adults - discharge

## Images

    * ![Sarcoid, stage IV - chest x-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1615t.jpg)Sarcoid, stage IV - chest x-ray
    * ![Acute vs. chronic conditions](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18126t.jpg)Acute vs. chronic conditions
    * ![Cor pulmonale](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18131t.jpg)Cor pulmonale
    * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Barnett CF, De Marco T. Pulmonary hypertension due to lung disease. In:
Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of
Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016: chap
59.

Bhatt SP, Dransfield MT. Chronic lung diseases and cardiovascular disease. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 86.

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heart Failure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartFailure_thumb.jpg)Heart
Failure _Read more_

![Pulmonary
Hypertension](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PulmonaryHypertension2_thumb.jpg)Pulmonary
Hypertension _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

