Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003458.htm    
                                Description: The gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT) blood test measures the level of the enzyme GGT in the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT) blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003458.htm

# Gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT) blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT) blood test measures the level of the
enzyme GGT in the blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

The health care provider may tell you to stop taking medicines that can affect
the test.

Drugs that can increase GGT levelÂ include:

    * Alcohol
    * Phenytoin
    * Phenobarbital

Drugs that can decrease GGT level include:

    * Birth control pills
    * Clofibrate

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

GGT is an enzyme found in high level in the liver, kidney, pancreas, heart,
and brain. It is also found in lesser amount in other tissues. An enzyme is a
protein that causes a specific chemical change in the body.

This test is used to detect diseases of the liver or bile ducts. It is also
done with other tests (such as the ALT, AST, ALP, and bilirubin tests) to tell
the difference between liver or bile duct disorders and bone disease.

It may also be done to screen for, or monitor, alcohol use.

## Normal Results

The normal range for adults is 5 to 40 U/L.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or may test different specimens. Talk to your
provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An increased GGT level may be due to any of the following:

    * Alcohol use
    * Diabetes
    * Flow of bile from the liver is blocked (cholestasis)
    * Heart failure
    * Swollen and inflamed liver (hepatitis)
    * Lack of blood flow to the liver
    * Liver tissue death
    * Liver cancer or tumor
    * Lung disease
    * Pancreas disease
    * Scarring of the liver (cirrhosis)
    * Use of drugs that are toxic to the liver

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight but may include:

    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood collecting under the skin)
    * Excessive bleeding
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

Gamma-GT; GGTP; GGT; Gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase (GGTP, gamma-
glutamyltransferase) - blood. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory
Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders;
2013:559-560.

Pratt DS. Liver chemistry and function tests. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 73.

## Review Date 1/26/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bile
Duct](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BileDuctCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bile
Duct Diseases _Read more_

![Cirrhosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cirrhosis2_thumb.jpg)Cirrhosis
_Read more_

![Heart Failure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartFailure_thumb.jpg)Heart
Failure _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

