Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000251.htm    
                                Description: Because of problems with your lungs or heart, you will need to use oxygen in your home.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Using oxygen at home - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000251.htm

# Using oxygen at home - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Because of problems with your lungs or heart, you will need to use oxygen in
your home.

Below are questions you may want to ask your health care provider to help you
use your oxygen.

## Questions

When should I use my oxygen?

    * All the time?
    * Only when I am walking?
    * Only when I am short of breath?
    * How about when I am sleeping? 

Is it OK for me to change how much oxygen is flowing out of the tank or oxygen
concentrator?

What should I do if I feel more short of breath?

Can my oxygen run out? How can I tell if the oxygen is running out?

    * What do I do if the oxygen is not working? Whom should I call for help?
    * Do I need to have a backup oxygen tank at home? How about when I am out?
    * What symptoms tell me that I am not getting enough oxygen? 

Will I be able to take my oxygen with me when I go somewhere? How long will
the oxygen last when I leave my home?

Do I need to worry about the electricity going off?

    * What should I do if that happens?
    * How do I prepare for an emergency?
    * How can I arrange to be able to get help quickly?
    * What phone numbers do I need to keep handy? 

What can I do if my lips, mouth, or nose become dry? Is it safe to use
petroleum jelly (Vaseline)?

How do I stay safe when I have oxygen in my home?

    * Do I need smoke detectors? Fire extinguishers?
    * Can anybody smoke in the room where I have oxygen? How about in my house? What should I do in a restaurant or bar?
    * Can my oxygen be in the same room as a fireplace or wood stove? How about a gas stove?
    * How far does my oxygen need to be away from electrical equipment? How about electric toothbrushes? Electric toys?
    * Where can I store my oxygen? Do I need to worry about how hot or cold it is? 

What do I do about getting oxygen when I travel on an airplane?

    * Can I bring my own oxygen or will my airline provide some? Do I need to call them ahead of time?
    * Will my airline provide oxygen for me when I am in the airport? Or only when I am on the airplane?
    * How can I get more oxygen when I am in places other than my hometown? 

## Alternative Names

Oxygen - what to ask your doctor; What to ask your doctor about home oxygen;
Hypoxia - oxygen at home

## References

American Lung Association website. Supplemental oxygen. www.lung.org/lung-
health-and-diseases/lung-disease-lookup/copd/diagnosing-and-
treating/supplemental-oxygen.html. Updated October 3, 2018. Accessed February
20, 2019.

COPD Foundation website. Oxygen therapy. www.copdfoundation.org/Learn-
More/I-am-a-Person-with-COPD/Oxygen.aspx. Accessed February 20, 2019.

## Read More

    * Acute bronchitis
    * Bronchiolitis
    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
    * Community-acquired pneumonia in adults
    * Lung surgery

## Patient Instructions

    * Bronchiolitis - discharge
    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease - adults - discharge
    * COPD - control drugs
    * COPD - quick-relief drugs
    * Interstitial lung disease - adults - discharge
    * Oxygen safety
    * Pneumonia in adults - discharge
    * Pneumonia in children - discharge
    * Traveling with breathing problems

## Review Date 1/15/2019

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron Jr. Associate Professor
of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School of
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by David
Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * COPD
    * Chronic Bronchitis
    * Cystic Fibrosis
    * Emphysema
    * Heart Failure
    * Lung Diseases
    * Oxygen Therapy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

