Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003804.htm    
                                Description: A chest x-ray is an x-ray of the chest, lungs, heart, large arteries, ribs, and diaphragm.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chest x-ray

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003804.htm

# Chest x-ray

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A chest x-ray is an x-ray of the chest, lungs, heart, large arteries, ribs,
and diaphragm.

## How the Test is Performed

You stand in front of the x-ray machine. You will be told to hold your breath
when the x-ray is taken.

Two images are usually taken. You will first need to stand facing the machine,
and then sideways.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Tell the health care providerÂ if you are pregnant. Chest x-rays are generally
not done during the first 6 months of pregnancy.

## How the Test will Feel

There is no discomfort. The film plate may feel cold.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider may order a chest x-ray if you have any of the following
symptoms:

    * A persistent cough
    * Chest pain from a chest injury (with a possible rib fracture or lung complication) or from heart problems
    * Coughing up blood
    * Difficulty breathing
    * Fever 

It may also be done if you have signs of tuberculosis, lung cancer, or other
chest or lung diseases.

A serial chest x-ray is one that is repeated. It may be done to monitor
changes found on a past chest x-ray.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to many things, including:

In the lungs:

    * Collapsed lung
    * Collection of fluid around the lung
    * Lung tumor (noncancerous or cancerous) 
    * Malformation of the blood vessels
    * Pneumonia
    * Scarring of lung tissue
    * Tuberculosis 

In the heart:

    * Problems with the size or shape of the heart
    * Problems with the position and shape of the large arteries 
    * Evidence of heart failure

In the bones:

    * Fractures or other problems of the ribs and spine
    * Osteoporosis

## Risks

There is low radiation exposure. X-rays are monitored and regulated to provide
the minimum amount of radiation exposure needed to produce the image. Most
experts feel that the benefits outweigh the risks. Pregnant women and children
are more sensitive to the risks of x-rays.

## Alternative Names

Chest radiography; Serial chest x-ray; X-ray - chest

## Images

    * ![Aortic rupture - chest X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1149t.jpg)Aortic rupture - chest x-ray
    * ![Lung cancer - frontal chest X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1183t.jpg)Lung cancer - frontal chest x-ray
    * ![Adenocarcinoma - chest x-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1597t.jpg)Adenocarcinoma - chest x-ray
    * ![Coal worker's lungs - chest x-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1599t.jpg)Coal worker's lungs - chest x-ray
    * ![Coccidioidomycosis - chest X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1600t.jpg)Coccidioidomycosis - chest x-ray
    * ![Coal workers pneumoconiosis - stage II](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1601t.jpg)Coal workers pneumoconiosis - stage II
    * ![Coal workers pneumoconiosis - stage II](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1602t.jpg)Coal workers pneumoconiosis - stage II
    * ![Coal workers pneumoconiosis, complicated](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1603t.jpg)Coal workers pneumoconiosis, complicated
    * ![Coal workers pneumoconiosis, complicated](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1604t.jpg)Coal workers pneumoconiosis, complicated
    * ![Tuberculosis, advanced - chest X-rays](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1607t.jpg)Tuberculosis, advanced - chest x-rays
    * ![Pulmonary nodule - front view chest x-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1610t.jpg)Pulmonary nodule - front view chest x-ray
    * ![Sarcoid, stage II - chest X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1614t.jpg)Sarcoid, stage II - chest x-ray
    * ![Sarcoid, stage IV - chest x-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1615t.jpg)Sarcoid, stage IV - chest x-ray
    * ![Pulmonary mass - side view chest X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1624t.jpg)Pulmonary mass - side view chest x-ray
    * ![Bronchial cancer - chest X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1628t.jpg)Bronchial cancer - chest x-ray
    * ![Lung nodule, right middle lobe - chest X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1630t.jpg)Lung nodule, right middle lobe - chest x-ray
    * ![Lung mass, right upper lung - chest X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1632t.jpg)Lung mass, right upper lung - chest x-ray
    * ![Lung nodule - front view chest X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1633t.jpg)Lung nodule - front view chest x-ray

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Chest radiography (chest x-ray, CXR) - diagnostic
norm. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic
Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:327-328.

Felker GM, Teerlink JR. Diagnosis and management of acute heart failure. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 24.

Gotway MB, Panse PM, Gruden JF, Elicker BM. Thoracic radiology: noninvasive
diagnostic imaging. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray
and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 18.

## Review Date 7/20/2018

Updated by: Allen J. Blaivas, DO, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and
Sleep Medicine, VA New Jersey Health Care System, Clinical Assistant
Professor, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, East Orange, NJ. Review provided
by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Acute
Bronchitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AcuteBronchitis_thumb.jpg)Acute
Bronchitis _Read more_

![Bronchial
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BronchialDisorders_thumb.jpg)Bronchial
Disorders _Read more_

![Chest Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChestInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Chest
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

