Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000224.htm    
                                Description: Your heart is a pump that moves blood through your body. Heart failure occurs when blood does not move well and fluid builds up in places in your body that it should not. Most often, fluid collects in    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heart failure - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000224.htm

# Heart failure - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your heart is a pump that moves blood through your body. Heart failure occurs
when blood does not move well and fluid builds up in places in your body that
it should not. Most often, fluid collects in your lungs and legs. Heart
failure most often occurs because your heart muscle is weak. However, it can
happen for other reasons as well.

Below are some questions you may want to ask your health care provider to help
you take care of your heart failure.

## Questions

What kinds of heath checks do I need to do at home and how do I do them?

    * How do I check my pulse and blood pressure?
    * How should I check my weight?
    * When should I do these checks?
    * What supplies do I need?
    * How should I keep track of my blood pressure, weight, and pulse? 

What are the signs and symptoms that my heart failure is getting worse? Will I
always have the same symptoms?

    * What should I do if my weight goes up? If my legs swell up? If I feel more short of breath? If my clothes feel tight?
    * What are the signs and symptoms that I am having angina or a heart attack?
    * When should I call the doctor? When should I call 911? 

What medicines am I taking to treat heart failure?

    * Do they have any side effects?
    * What should I do if I miss a dose?
    * Is it ever safe to stop taking any of these medicines on my own?
    * What over-the-counter medicines are NOT compatible with my regular medicines? 

How much activity or exercise can I do?

    * Which activities are better to start with?
    * Are there activities or exercises that are not safe for me?
    * Is it safe for me to exercise on my own? 

Do I need to go to a cardiac rehabilitation program?

Are there limits on what I can do at work?

What should I do if I feel sad or very worried about my heart disease?

How can I change the way I live to make my heart stronger?

    * How much water or fluid can I drink every day? How much salt can I eat? What are other types of seasoning I can use instead of salt?
    * What is a heart-healthy diet? Is it ever ok to eat something that is not heart-healthy? What are some ways to eat healthy when I go to a restaurant?
    * Is it ok to drink alcohol? How much is ok?
    * Is it ok to be around other people who are smoking?
    * Is my blood pressure normal? What is my cholesterol, and do l need to take medicines for it?
    * Is it ok to be sexually active? Is it safe to use sildenafil (Viagra), vardenafil (Levitra), or tadalafil (Cialis) for erection problems? 

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor about heart failure; HF - what to ask your doctor

## References

Januzzi JL, Mann DL. Approach to the patient with heart failure. In: Zipes DP,
Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 21.

Mcmurray JJV, Pfeffer MA. Heart failure: Management and prognosis. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 59.

Rasmusson K, Flattery M, Baas LS. American association of heart failure nurses
position paper on educating patients with heart failure. _Heart Lung_.
2015;44(2):173-177. PMID: 25649810 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25649810.

## Read More

    * Atherosclerosis
    * Cardiomyopathy
    * Heart attack
    * Heart failure - overview
    * High blood pressure - adults
    * Hypertensive heart disease

## Patient Instructions

    * ACE inhibitors
    * Aspirin and heart disease
    * Cholesterol and lifestyle
    * Cholesterol - drug treatment
    * Dietary fats explained
    * Fast food tips
    * Heart failure - discharge
    * Heart failure - fluids and diuretics
    * Heart failure - home monitoring
    * Low-salt diet 

## Review Date 1/28/2019

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Heart Failure

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

