Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000158.htm    
                                Description: Heart failure is a condition in which the heart is no longer able to pump oxygen-rich blood to the rest of the body efficiently. This causes symptoms to occur throughout the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heart failure - overview

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000158.htm

# Heart failure - overview

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Heart failure is a condition in which the heart is no longer able to pump
oxygen-rich blood to the rest of the body efficiently. This causes symptoms to
occur throughout the body.

## Causes

Heart failure is most often a long-term (chronic) condition, but it may come
on suddenly. It can be caused by many different heart problems.

The condition may affect only the right side or only the left side of the
heart. More often, both sides of the heart are involved.

Heart failure is present when:

    * Your heart muscle cannot pump (eject) the blood out of the heart very well. This is called systolic heart failure, or heart failure with a reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF).
    * Your heart muscle is stiff and does not fill up with blood easily. This is called diastolic heart failure, or heart failure with a preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF). 

As the heart's pumping becomes less effective, blood may back up in other
areas of the body. Fluid may build up in the lungs, liver, gastrointestinal
tract, and the arms and legs. This is called congestive heart failure.

![Circulation of blood through the
heart](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19387.jpg)

The most common causes of heart failure are:

    * Coronary artery disease (CAD), a narrowing or blockage of the small blood vessels that supply blood and oxygen to the heart. This can weaken the heart muscle over time or suddenly.
    * High blood pressure that is not well controlled, leading to problems with stiffness, or eventually leading to muscle weakening. 

Other heart problems that may cause heart failure are:

    * Congenital heart disease
    * Heart attack (when coronary artery disease results in a sudden blockage of a heart artery)
    * Heart valves that are leaky or narrowed
    * Infection that weakens the heart muscle
    * Some types of abnormal heart rhythms (arrhythmias) 

Other diseases that can cause or contribute to heart failure:

    * Amyloidosis
    * Emphysema
    * Overactive thyroid
    * Sarcoidosis
    * Severe anemia
    * Too much iron in the body
    * Underactive thyroid 

## Symptoms

Symptoms of heart failure often begin slowly. At first, they may only occur
when you are very active. Over time, you may notice breathing problems and
other symptoms even when you are resting. Symptoms may also appear suddenly
after the heart is damaged from a heart attack or other problem.

Common symptoms are:

    * Cough 
    * Fatigue, weakness, faintness 
    * Loss of appetite 
    * Need to urinate at night 
    * Pulse that feels fast or irregular, or a sensation of feeling the heartbeat (palpitations) 
    * Shortness of breath when you are active or after you lie down 
    * Swollen (enlarged) liver or abdomen 
    * Swollen feet and ankles 
    * Waking up from sleep after a couple of hours due to shortness of breath 
    * Weight gain 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine you for signs of heart failure:

    * Fast or difficult breathing
    * Leg swelling (edema)
    * Neck veins that stick out (are distended)
    * Sounds (crackles) from fluid buildup in your lungs, heard through a stethoscope
    * Swelling of the liver or abdomen
    * Uneven or fast heartbeat and abnormal heart sounds 
![Foot swelling](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19607.jpg)

Many tests are used to diagnose and monitor heart failure.

An echocardiogram (echo) is most often the best first test for people when
heart failure is being evaluated. Your provider will use it to guide your
treatment.

Other imaging tests can look at how well your heart is able to pump blood, and
how much the heart muscle is damaged.

Many blood tests may also be used to:

    * Help diagnose and monitor heart failure
    * Identify risks for various types of heart disease
    * Look for possible causes of heart failure, or problems that may make your heart failure worse
    * Monitor for side effects of medicines you may be taking 

## Treatment

MONITORING AND SELF CARE

If you have heart failure, your provider will monitor you closely. You will
have follow-up visits at least every 3 to 6 months, but sometimes much more
often. You will also have tests to check your heart function.

Knowing your body and the symptoms that your heart failure is getting worse
will help you stay healthier and out of the hospital. At home, watch for
changes in your heart rate, pulse, blood pressure, and weight.

Weight gain, especially over a day or two, can be a sign that your body is
holding on to extra fluid and your heart failure is getting worse. Talk to
your provider about what you should do if your weight goes up or you develop
more symptoms.

Limit how much salt you eat. Your provider may also ask you to limit how much
fluid you drink during the day.

Other important changes to make in your lifestyle:

    * Ask your provider how much alcohol you may drink.
    * DO NOT smoke.
    * Stay active. Walk or ride a stationary bicycle. Your provider can provide a safe and effective exercise plan for you. DO NOT exercise on days when your weight has gone up from fluid or you are not feeling well.
    * Lose weight if you are overweight.
    * Lower your cholesterol by changing your lifestyle.
    * Get enough rest, including after exercise, eating, or other activities. This allows your heart to rest too. 

MEDICINES, SURGERY, AND DEVICES

You will need to take medicines to treat your heart failure. Medicines treat
the symptoms, prevent your heart failure from getting worse, and help you live
longer. It is very important that you take your medicine as your health care
team directed.

These medicines:

    * Help the heart muscle pump better
    * Keep your blood from clotting
    * Lower your cholesterol levels
    * Open up blood vessels or slow your heart rate so your heart does not have to work as hard
    * Reduce damage to the heart
    * Reduce the risk for abnormal heart rhythms
    * Replace potassium
    * Rid your body of excess fluid and salt (sodium) 

It is very important that you take your medicine as directed. DO NOT take any
other drugs or herbs without first asking your provider about them. Drugs that
may make your heart failure worse include:

    * Ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin)
    * Naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn) 

The following surgeries and devices may be recommended for some people with
heart failure:

    * Coronary bypass surgery (CABG) or angioplasty with or without stenting may help improve blood flow to the damaged or weakened heart muscle.
    * Heart valve surgery may be done if changes in a heart valve are causing your heart failure.
    * A pacemaker can help treat slow heart rates or help both sides of your heart contract at the same time.
    * A defibrillator sends an electrical pulse to stop life-threatening abnormal heart rhythms. 

END-STAGE HEART FAILURE

Severe heart failure occurs when treatments no longer work. Certain treatments
may be used when a person is waiting for (or instead of) a heart transplant:

    * Intra-aortic balloon pump (IABP)
    * Left or right ventricular assist device (LVAD)
    * Total artificial heart 

At a certain point, the provider will decide whether it is best to keep
treating heart failure aggressively. The person, along with their family and
doctors, may want to discuss palliative or comfort care at this time.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Often, you can control heart failure by taking medicine, changing your
lifestyle, and treating the condition that caused it.

Heart failure can suddenly get worse due to:

    * Ischemia (lack of blood flow to the heart muscle)
    * Eating high-salt foods
    * Heart attack
    * Infections or other illnesses
    * Not taking medicines correctly
    * New, abnormal heart rhythms 

Most of the time, heart failure is a chronic illness that gets worse over
time. Some people develop severe heart failure. Medicines, other treatments,
and surgery no longer help at this stage.

People with heart failure may be at risk for dangerous heart rhythms. These
people often receive an implanted defibrillator.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop:

    * Increased cough or phlegm
    * Sudden weight gain or swelling
    * Weakness
    * Other new or unexplained symptoms 

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if:

    * You faint 
    * You have fast and irregular heartbeat (especially if you also have other symptoms)
    * You feel a severe crushing chest pain

## Prevention

Most cases of heart failure can be prevented by living a healthy lifestyle and
taking steps aimed at reducing your risk for heart disease.

.

## Alternative Names

CHF; Congestive heart failure; Left-sided heart failure; Right-sided heart
failure - cor pulmonale; Cardiomyopathy - heart failure; HF

## Patient Instructions

    * ACE inhibitors
    * Antiplatelet drugs - P2Y12 inhibitors
    * Being active when you have heart disease
    * Heart bypass surgery - discharge
    * Heart failure - discharge
    * Heart failure - fluids and diuretics
    * Heart failure - home monitoring
    * Heart failure - what to ask your doctor 
    * Heart pacemaker - discharge
    * Implantable cardioverter defibrillator - discharge

## Images

    * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
    * ![Heart - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1097t.jpg)Heart - front view
    * ![Circulation of blood through the heart](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19387t.jpg)Circulation of blood through the heart
    * ![Foot swelling](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19607t.jpg)Foot swelling

## References

Allen LA, Stevenson LW. Management of patients with cardiovascular disease
approaching end of life. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli
GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular
Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 31.

Felker GM, Teerlink JR. Diagnosis and management of acute heart failure. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 24.

Forman DE, Sanderson BK, Josephson RA, Raikhelkar J, Bittner V; American
College of Cardiology's Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease Section. Heart
failure as a newly approved diagnosis for cardiac rehabilitation: challenges
and opportunities. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2015;65(24):2652-2659. PMID: 26088305
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26088305.

Mann DL. Management of heart failure patients with reduced ejection fraction.
In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 25.

Yancy CW, Jessup M, Bozkurt B, et al. 2017 ACC/AHA/HFSA focused update of the
2013 ACCF/AHA guideline for the management of heart failure: a report of the
American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on
Clinical Practice Guidelines and the Heart Failure Society of America.
_Circulation_. 2017;136(6):e137-e161. PMID: 28455343
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28455343.

Yancy CW, Jessup M, Bozkurt B, et al; American College of Cardiology
Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. 2013
ACCF/AHA guideline for the management of heart failure: a report of the
American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association Task
Force on Practice Guidelines. _Circulation_. 2013;128(16):e240-e327. PMID:
23741058 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23741058.

Zile MR, Litwin SE. Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 26.

## Review Date 6/18/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Internal review and update on 01/17/2020 by David
Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heart Failure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartFailure_thumb.jpg)Heart
Failure _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

