Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000140.htm    
                                Description: Pulmonary edema is an abnormal buildup of fluid in the lungs. This buildup of fluid leads to shortness of breath.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pulmonary edema

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000140.htm

# Pulmonary edema

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pulmonary edema is an abnormal buildup of fluid in the lungs. This buildup of
fluid leads to shortness of breath.

## Causes

Pulmonary edema is often caused by congestive heart failure. When the heart is
not able to pump efficiently, blood can back up into the veins that take blood
through the lungs.

As the pressure in these blood vessels increases, fluid is pushed into the air
spaces (alveoli) in the lungs. This fluid reduces normal oxygen movement
through the lungs. These two factors combine to cause shortness of breath.

![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1103.jpg)

Congestive heart failure that leads to pulmonary edema may be caused by:

    * Heart attack, or any disease of the heart that weakens or stiffens the heart muscle (cardiomyopathy)
    * Leaking or narrowed heart valves (mitral or aortic valves)
    * Sudden, severe high blood pressure (hypertension) 

Pulmonary edema may also be caused by:

    * Certain medicines
    * High altitude exposure
    * Kidney failure
    * Narrowed arteries that bring blood to the kidneys
    * Lung damage caused by poisonous gas or severe infection
    * Major injury 

## Symptoms

Symptoms of pulmonary edema may include:

    * Coughing up blood or bloody froth
    * Difficulty breathing when lying down (orthopnea)
    * Feeling of "air hunger" or "drowning" (This feeling is called "paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea" if it causes you to wake up 1 to 2 hours after falling asleep and struggle to catch your breath.)
    * Grunting, gurgling, or wheezing sounds with breathing
    * Problems speaking in full sentences because of shortness of breath 

Other symptoms may include:

    * Anxiety or restlessness
    * Decrease in level of alertness
    * Leg or abdominal swelling
    * Pale skin
    * Sweating (excessive) 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a thorough physical exam.

The provider will listen to your lungs and heart with a stethoscope to check
for:

    * Abnormal heart sounds
    * Crackles in your lungs, called rales
    * Increased heart rate (tachycardia)
    * Rapid breathing (tachypnea) 

Other things that may be seen during the exam include:

    * Leg or abdominal swelling
    * Abnormalities of your neck veins (which can show that there is too much fluid in your body)
    * Pale or blue skin color (pallor or cyanosis) 

Possible tests include:

    * Blood chemistries
    * Blood oxygen levels(oximetry or arterial blood gases)
    * Chest x-ray
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Echocardiogram (ultrasound of the heart) to see if there are problems with the heart muscle
    * Electrocardiogram (ECG) to look for signs of a heart attack or problems with the heart rhythm 

## Treatment

Pulmonary edema is almost always treated in the emergency room or hospital.
You may need to be in an intensive care unit (ICU).

    * Oxygen is given through a face mask or tiny plastic tubes are placed in the nose.
    * A breathing tube may be placed into the windpipe (trachea) so you can be connected to a breathing machine (ventilator) if you cannot breathe well on your own. 

The cause of edema should be identified and treated quickly. For example, if a
heart attack has caused the condition, it must be treated right away.

Medicines that may be used include:

    * Diuretics that remove excess fluid from the body
    * Medicines that strengthen the heart muscle, control the heartbeat, or relieve pressure on the heart
    * Other medicines when heart failure is not the cause of the pulmonary edema

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook depends on the cause. The condition may get better quickly or
slowly. Some people may need to use a breathing machine for a long time. If
not treated, this condition can be life threatening.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the emergency room or call 911 if you have breathing problems.

## Prevention

Take all your medicines as directed if you have a disease that can lead to
pulmonary edema or a weakened heart muscle.

Following a healthy diet that is low in salt and fat, and controlling your
other risk factors can reduce the risk of developing this condition.

## Alternative Names

Lung congestion; Lung water; Pulmonary congestion; Heart failure - pulmonary
edema

## Images

    * ![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1103t.jpg)Lungs
    * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Felker GM, Teerlink JR. Diagnosis and management of acute heart failure. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2019:chap 24.

Matthay MA, Murray JF. Pulmonary edema. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD,
et al, eds. _Murray & Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 62.

O'Connor CM, Rogers JG. Heart failure: pathophysiology and diagnosis. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 58.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Edema](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Edema_thumb.jpg)Edema _Read more_

![Heart Failure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartFailure_thumb.jpg)Heart
Failure _Read more_

![Lung Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lung
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

