Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000366.htm    
                                Description: The diagnosis of heart failure is made largely on a person    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heart failure - tests

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000366.htm

# Heart failure - tests

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The diagnosis of heart failure is made largely on a person's symptoms and a
physical exam. However, there are many tests that can help give more
information about the condition.

## Echocardiogram

An echocardiogram (echo) is a test that uses sound waves to create a moving
picture of the heart. The picture is much more detailed than a plain x-ray
image.

This test helps your health care provider learn more about how well your heart
contracts and relaxes. It also provides information about the size of your
heart and how well the heart valves are working.

An echocardiogram is the best test to:

    * Identify which type of heart failure (systolic, diastolic, valvular)
    * Monitor your heart failure and guide your treatment 

Heart failure can be diagnosed if the echocardiogram shows that the pumping
function of the heart is too low. This is called an ejection fraction. A
normal ejection fraction is around 55% to 65%.

If only some parts of the heart are not working correctly, it may mean that
there is a blockage in the artery of the heart that delivers blood to that
area.

## Other Imaging Tests

Many other imaging tests are used to look at how well your heart is able to
pump blood and the extent of heart muscle damage.

You may have a chest x-ray done in your provider's office if your symptoms
suddenly become worse. However, a chest x-ray cannot diagnose heart failure.

Ventriculography is another test that measures the overall squeezing strength
of the heart (ejection fraction). Like an echocardiogram, it can show parts of
the heart muscle that are not moving well. This test uses x-ray contrast fluid
to fill the pumping chamber of the heart and evaluate its function. It is
often done at the same time as other tests, such as coronary angiography.

MRI, CT, or PET scans of the heart may be done to check how much heart muscle
damage is present. It can also help detect the reason for a patient's heart
failure.

Stress tests are done to see whether the heart muscle is getting enough blood
flow and oxygen when it is working hard (under stress). Types of stress tests
include:

    * Nuclear stress test
    * Exercise stress test
    * Stress echocardiogram

Your provider may order a heart catheterization if any imaging tests show that
you have narrowing in one of your arteries, or if you are having chest pain
(angina) or a more definitive test is desired.

## Blood Tests

Several different blood tests can be used to learn more about your condition.
Tests are done to:

    * Help diagnose the cause for and monitor heart failure.
    * Identify risk factors for heart disease.
    * Look for possible causes of heart failure or problems that may make your heart failure worse.
    * Monitor side effects of medicines you may be taking. 

Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and serum creatinine tests help monitor how well
your kidneys are working. You will need these tests regularly if:

    * You are taking medicines called ACE inhibitors or ARBs (angiotensin receptor blockers)
    * Your provider makes changes to the doses of your medicines
    * You have more severe heart failure 

Sodium and potassium levels in your blood will need to be measured on a
regular basis when there are changes made for some medicines including:

    * ACE inhibitors, ARBs, or certain types of water pills (amiloride, spironolactone, and triamterene) and other medicines that can make your potassium levels too high
    * Most other types of water pills, which can make your sodium too low or your potassium too high 

Anemia, or low red blood cell count, can make your heart failure worse. Your
provider will check your CBC or complete blood count on a regular basis or
when your symptoms become worse.

## Alternative Names

CHF - tests; Congestive heart failure - tests; Cardiomyopathy - tests; HF -
tests

## References

Greenberg B, Kim PJ, Kahn AM. Clinical evaluation of heart failure. In: Felker
GM, Mann DL, eds. _Heart Failure: A Companion to Braunwald's Heart Disease_.
4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier, 2020:chap 31.

Mann DL. Management of patients with heart failure with reduced ejection
fraction. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E,
eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2019:chap 25.

Yancy CW, Jessup M, Bozkurt B, et al. 2017 ACC/AHA/HFSA focused update of the
2013 ACCF/ AHA guideline for the management of heart failure: a report of the
American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on
Clinical Practice Guidelines and the Heart Failure Society of America. _J
Cardiac Failure_. 2017;23(8):628-651. PMID: 28461259
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28461259.

Yancy CW, Jessup M, Bozkurt B, et al. 2013 ACCF/AHA guideline for the
management of heart failure: a report of the American College of Cardiology
Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines.
_Circulation_. 2013;128(16):e240-e327. PMID: 23741058
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23741058.

## Review Date 4/14/2019

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Heart Failure

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

