Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000492.htm    
                                Description: Osteoporosis is a disease that causes bones to become brittle and more likely to fracture (break). With osteoporosis, the bones lose density. Bone density is the amount of bone tissue in your bones.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Exercise, lifestyle, and your bones

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000492.htm

# Exercise, lifestyle, and your bones

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Osteoporosis is a disease that causes bones to become brittle and more likely
to fracture (break). With osteoporosis, the bones lose density. Bone density
is the amount of bone tissue in your bones.

Exercise plays a key role in preserving bone density as you age.

## Why Exercise?

Make exercise a regular part of your life. It helps keep your bones strong and
lower your risk of osteoporosis and fractures as you get older.

Before you begin an exercise program, talk with your health care provider if:

    * You are older
    * You have not been active for a while
    * You have diabetes, heart disease, lung disease, or any other health condition 

## How Much and What Type of Exercise?

To build up bone density, the exercise must make your muscles pull on your
bones. These are called weight-bearing exercises. Some of them are:

    * Brisk walks, jogging, playing tennis, dancing, or other weight-bearing activities such as aerobics and other sports
    * Careful weight training, using weight machines or free weights 

Weight-bearing exercises also:

    * Increase bone density even in young people
    * Help preserve bone density in women who are approaching menopause 

To protect your bones, do weight-bearing exercises 3 or more days a week for a
total of over 90 minutes a week.

If you are older, check with your provider before doing high-impact aerobics,
such as step aerobics. This type of exercise may increase your risk for
fractures if you have osteoporosis.

Low-impact exercises, like yoga and tai chi, do not help bone density very
much. But they can improve your balance and lower your risk of falling and
breaking a bone. And, even though they are good for your heart, swimming and
biking do not increase bone density.

## Other Lifestyle Changes to Help Your Bones

If you smoke, quit. Also limit how much alcohol you drink. Too much alcohol
can damage your bones and raise your risk of falling and breaking a bone.

If you do not get enough calcium, or if your body does not absorb enough
calcium from the foods you eat, your body may not make enough new bone. Talk
with your provider about calcium and your bones.

Vitamin D helps your body absorb enough calcium.

    * Ask your provider if you should take a vitamin D supplement.
    * You may need more vitamin D during the winter or if you need to avoid sun exposure to prevent skin cancer.
    * Ask your provider about how much sun is safe for you. 

## Alternative Names

Osteoporosis - exercise; Low bone density - exercise; Osteopenia - exercise

## Images

    * ![Weight control](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10045t.jpg)Weight control

## References

De Paula, FJA, Black DM, Rosen CJ. Osteoporosis and bone biology. In: Melmed
S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 29.

National Osteoporosis Foundation website. NOF's clinician's guide to
prevention and treatment of osteoporosis. my.nof.org/bone-
soruce/education/clinicians-guide-to-the-prevention-and-treatment-of-
osteoporosis. Updated November 11, 2015. Accessed June 1, 2018.

## Review Date 5/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Benefits of Exercise
    * Exercise and Physical Fitness
    * How Much Exercise Do I Need?
    * Osteoporosis

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

