Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007197.htm    
                                Description: A bone mineral density (BMD) test measures how much calcium and other types of minerals are in an area of your bone.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bone mineral density test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007197.htm

# Bone mineral density test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A bone mineral density (BMD) test measures how much calcium and other types of
minerals are in an area of your bone.

This test helps your health care provider detect osteoporosis and predict your
risk for bone fractures.

## How the Test is Performed

Bone density testing can be done in several ways.

The most common and accurate way uses a dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry
(DEXA) scan. DEXA uses low-dose x-rays. (You receive more radiation from a
chest x-ray.)

There are two types of DEXA scans:

    * Central DEXA -- You lie on a soft table. The scanner passes over your lower spine and hip. In most cases, you do not need to undress. This scan is the best test to predict your risk for fractures, especially of the hip.
    * Peripheral DEXA (p-DEXA) -- These smaller machines measure the bone density in your wrist, fingers, leg, or heel. These machines are in health care offices, pharmacies, shopping centers, and at health fairs. 

## How to Prepare for the Test

If you are or could be pregnant, tell your provider before this test is done.

DO NOT take calcium supplements for 24 hours before the test.

You'll be told to remove all metal items from your body, such as jewelry and
buckles.

## How the Test will Feel

The scan is painless. You need to remain still during the test.

## Why the Test is Performed

Bone mineral density (BMD) tests are used to:

    * Diagnose bone loss and osteoporosis
    * See how well osteoporosis medicine is working
    * Predict your risk for future bone fractures 

Bone density testing is recommended for all women age 65 and older.

There is not full agreement on whether men should undergo this type of
testing. Some groups recommend testing of men at age 70, while others state
that the evidence is not clear enough to say whether men at this age benefit
from screening.

Younger women, as well as men of any age, may also need bone density testing
if they have risk factors for osteoporosis. These risk factors include:

    * Fracturing a bone after age 50
    * Strong family history of osteoporosis
    * History of treatment for prostate cancer or breast cancer
    * History of medical conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis, diabetes, thyroid imbalances, or anorexia nervosa
    * Early menopause (either from natural causes or hysterectomy)
    * Long-term use of medicines such as corticosteroids, thyroid hormone, or aromatase inhibitors
    * Low body weight (less than 127 pounds) or low body mass index (less than 21)
    * Significant loss of height
    * Long-term tobacco or excessive alcohol use 

## Normal Results

The results of your test are usually reported as a T-score and Z-score:

    * T-score compares your bone density with that of a healthy young woman.
    * Z-score compares your bone density with that of other people of your age, gender, and race.

With either score, a negative number means you have thinner bones than
average. The more negative the number, the higher your risk for a bone
fracture.

A T-score is within the normal range if it is -1.0 or above.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Bone mineral density testing does not diagnose fractures. Along with other
risk factors you may have, it helps predict your risk for having a bone
fracture in the future. Your provider will help you understand the results.

If your T-score is:

    * Between -1 and -2.5, you may have early bone loss (osteopenia)
    * Below -2.5, you likely have osteoporosis 

Treatment recommendation depends on your total fracture risk. This risk can be
calculated using the FRAX score. Your provider can tell you more about this.
You can also find information about FRAX online.

## Risks

Bone mineral density uses a slight amount of radiation. Most experts feel that
the risk is very low compared with the benefits of finding osteoporosis before
you break a bone.

## Alternative Names

BMD test; Bone density test; Bone densitometry; DEXA scan; DXA; Dual-energy
x-ray absorptiometry; p-DEXA; Osteoporosis - BMD

## Images

    * ![Bone density scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1073t.jpg)Bone density scan
    * ![Osteoporosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17285t.jpg)Osteoporosis
    * ![Osteoporosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17287t.jpg)Osteoporosis

## References

Compston JE, McClung MR, Leslie WD. Osteoporosis. _Lancet_.
2019;393(10169):364-376. PMID: 30696576 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30696576.

Chapurlat RD, Genant HK. Osteoporosis. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser
DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 69.

Cosman F, de Beur SJ, LeBoff MS, et al; National Osteoporosis Foundation.
Clinician's guide to prevention and treatment of osteoporosis. _Osteoporos
Int_. 2014;25(10):2359-2381. PMID: 25182228
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25182228.

De Paula FJA, Black DM, Rosen CJ. Osteoporosis and bone biology. In: Melmed S,
Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 29.

Kendler D, Almohaya M, Almehthel M. Dual x-ray absorptiometry and measurement
of bone. In: Hochberg MC, Gravallese EM, Silman AJ, Smolen JS, Weinblatt ME,
Weisman MH, eds. _Rheumatology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap
51.

US Preventive Services Task Force; Curry SJ, Krist AH, Owens DK, et al.
Screening for osteoporosis to prevent fractures: US Preventive Services Task
Force recommendation statement. _JAMA_. 2018;319(24):2521-2531. PMID: 29946735
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29946735.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Internal review and update on 07/12/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Bone Density](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneDensity_thumb.jpg)Bone
Density _Read more_

![Osteoporosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Osteoporosis2_thumb.jpg)Osteoporosis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

