Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000502.htm    
                                Description: Osteoporosis is a disease that causes bones to become brittle and more likely to fracture (break). With osteoporosis, the bones lose density. Bone density is the amount of bone tissue that is in your bones.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Medicines for osteoporosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000502.htm

# Medicines for osteoporosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Osteoporosis is a disease that causes bones to become brittle and more likely
to fracture (break). With osteoporosis, the bones lose density. Bone density
is the amount of bone tissue that is in your bones.

## When are Medicines Used?

Your doctor may prescribe certain medicines to help lower your risk of
fractures. These medicines make the bones in your hips, spine, and other areas
less likely to break.

![Osteoporosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17156.jpg)

Your doctor may prescribe medicines when:

    * A bone density test shows you have osteoporosis, even if you have not had a fracture before, but your fracture risk is high.
    * You have a bone fracture, and a bone density test shows you have thinner than normal bones, but not osteoporosis.
    * You have a bone fracture that occurs without any significant injury. 

## Bisphosphonates

Bisphosphonates are the main medicines that are used to both prevent and treat
bone loss. They are most often taken by mouth. You may take a pill either once
a week or once a month. You also may get bisphosphonates through a vein (IV).
Most often this is done once or twice a year.

Common side effects with bisphosphonates taken by mouth are heartburn, nausea,
and pain in the belly. When you take bisphosphonates:

    * Take them on an empty stomach in the morning with 6 to 8 ounces (oz), or 177 to 236 milliliters (mL), of plain water (not carbonated water or juice).
    * After taking the pill, remain sitting or standing for at least 30 minutes.
    * DO NOT eat or drink for at least 30 to 60 minutes. 

Rare side effects are:

    * Low blood calcium level
    * A certain type of leg-bone fracture
    * Damage to the jaw bone
    * Fast, abnormal heartbeat (atrial fibrillation) 

Your doctor may have you stop taking this medicine after about 5 years. Doing
so decreases the risk of certain side effects. This is called a drug holiday.

## Other Drugs for Osteoporosis

Raloxifene (Evista) may also be used to prevent and treat osteoporosis.

    * It can reduce the risk of spinal fractures, but not other types of fractures.
    * The most serious side effect is a very small risk of blood clots in the leg veins or in the lungs.
    * This drug may also help decrease the risk of heart disease and breast cancer.
    * Other selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) are also used to treat osteoporosis. 

Denosumab (Prolia) is a medicine that prevents bones from becoming more
fragile. This medicine:

    * Is given as an injection every 6 months.
    * May increase bone density more than bisphosphonates.
    * Is generally not a first-line treatment.
    * May not be a good choice for people who have weak immune systems or who take medicines that affect the immune system. 

Teriparatide (Forteo) is a bio-engineered form of parathyroid hormone. This
medicine:

    * May increase bone density and decrease the risk for fractures.
    * Is given as an injection underneath the skin at home, often every day.
    * Does not seem to have severe long-term side effects, but may cause nausea, dizziness, or leg cramps. 

Estrogen, or hormone replacement therapy (HRT). This medicine:

    * Is very effective in preventing and treating osteoporosis.
    * Was the most commonly used osteoporosis medication for many years. Its use decreased because of concern that this medicine caused heart disease, breast cancer, and blood clots.
    * Is still a good option for many younger women (50 to 60 years old). If a woman is taking estrogen already, she and her doctor must discuss the risks and benefits of doing so. 

Parathyroid hormone.

    * This medicine is given as daily shots under the skin. Your doctor or nurse will teach you how to give yourself these shots at home.
    * Parathyroid hormone works better if you have never taken bisphosphonates. 

Calcitonin is a medicine that slows the rate of bone loss. This medicine:

    * Is sometimes used after a bone fracture because it decreases bone pain.
    * Is much less effective than bisphosphonates.
    * Comes as a nasal spray or an injection. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your doctor for these symptoms or side effects:

    * Chest pain, heartburn, or problems swallowing
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Blood in your stool
    * Swelling, pain, redness in one of your legs
    * Fast heart beat
    * Skin rash
    * Pain in your thigh or hip
    * Pain in your jaw 

## Alternative Names

Alendronate (Fosamax); Ibandronate (Boniva); Risedronate (Actonel); Zoledronic
acid (Reclast); Raloxifene (Evista); Teriparatide (Forteo); Denosumab
(Prolia); Low bone density - medicines; Osteoporosis - medicines

## Images

    * ![Osteoporosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17156t.jpg)Osteoporosis

## References

Cosman F, de Beur SJ, LeBoff MS, et al. Clinician's guide to prevention and
treatment of osteoporosis. _Osteoporos Int_. 2014;25(10):2359-2381. PMID:
25182228 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25182228.

De Paula FJA, Black DM, Rosen CJ. Osteoporosis and bone biology. In: Melmed S,
Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 29.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Osteoporosis

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

