Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007352.htm    
                                Description: A lumbar magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan uses energy from strong magnets to create pictures of the lower part of the spine (lumbar spine).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lumbar MRI scan

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007352.htm

# Lumbar MRI scan

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A lumbar magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan uses energy from strong magnets
to create pictures of the lower part of the spine (lumbar spine).

An MRI does not use radiation (x-rays).

Single MRI images are called slices. The images can be stored on a computer or
printed on film. One exam produces many images.

Related exams include:

    * Cervical MRI scan (neck MRI)
    * MRI

## How the Test is Performed

You will wear a hospital gown or clothes without metal snaps or zippers (such
as sweatpants and a t-shirt). Make sure you take off your watch, jewelry and
watches. Some types of metal can cause blurry images.

You will lie on a narrow table that slides into a large tunnel-like tube.

Some exams require a special dye (contrast). Most of the time, you will get
the dye through a vein (IV) in your hand or arm before the test. You can also
get the dye through an injection. The dye helps the radiologist see certain
areas more clearly.

During the MRI, the person who operates the machine will watch you from
another room. The test most often lasts 30 to 60 minutes, but may take longer.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You may be asked not to eat or drink anything for 4 to 6 hours before the
scan.

Tell your health care provider if you are afraid of closed spaces (have
claustrophobia). You may be given a medicine to help you feel sleepy and less
anxious. Your provider may suggest an "open" MRI, in which the machine is not
as close to the body.

Before the test, tell your provider if you have:

    * Brain aneurysm clips
    * Certain types of artificial heart valves
    * Heart defibrillator or pacemaker
    * Inner ear (cochlear) implants
    * Kidney disease or dialysis (you may not be able to receive contrast)
    * Recently placed artificial joints
    * Certain types of vascular stents
    * Worked with sheet metal in the past (you may need tests to check for metal pieces in your eyes) 

Because the MRI contains strong magnets, metal objects are not allowed into
the room with the MRI scanner:

    * Pens, pocketknives, and eyeglasses may fly across the room.
    * Items such as jewelry, watches, credit cards, and hearing aids can be damaged.
    * Pins, hairpins, metal zippers, and similar metallic items can distort the images.
    * Removable dental work should be taken out just before the scan. 

## How the Test will Feel

An MRI exam causes no pain. You will need to lie still as too much movement
can blur MRI images and cause errors.

The table may be hard or cold, but you can ask for a blanket or pillow. The
machine makes loud thumping and humming noises when turned on. You can wear
ear plugs to help block out the noise.

An intercom in the room lets you to speak to someone at any time. Some MRIs
have televisions and special headphones that you can use to help the time
pass.

There is no recovery time, unless you were given a medicine to relax. After an
MRI scan, you can return to your normal diet, activity, and medicines.

## Why the Test is Performed

You may need a lumbar MRI if you have:

    * Low back or pelvic pain that does not get better after treatment
    * Leg weakness, numbness, or other symptoms that do not improve or get worse 

Your provider may also order a lumbar MRI if you have:

    * Back pain and fever
    * Birth defects of the lower spine
    * Injury or trauma to the lower spine
    * Low back pain and a history or signs of cancer
    * Multiple sclerosis
    * Problems controlling or emptying your bladder
    * Disk herniation

## Normal Results

A normal result means your spine and nearby nerves look OK.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Most of the time, abnormal results are due to:

    * Herniated or "slipped" disk (lumbar radiculopathy)
    * Narrowing of the spinal column (spinal stenosis)
    * Abnormal wearing on the bones and cartilage in the spine (spondylitis) 

Other abnormal results may be due to:

    * Degenerative changes due to age
    * Ankylosing spondylitis, a type of arthritis
    * Bone infection
    * Cauda equina syndrome
    * Fractures of the lower back due to osteoporosis
    * Disk inflammation (diskitis)
    * Spinal cord abscess
    * Spinal cord injury
    * Spinal tumor
    * Syringomyelia 

Talk to your provider about your questions and concerns.

## Risks

MRI contains no radiation. There have been no reported side effects from the
magnetic fields and radio waves.

It is also safe to have MRI performed during pregnancy. No side effects or
complications have been proven.

The most common type of contrast (dye) used is gadolinium. It is very safe.
Allergic reactions to this dye are rare. However, gadolinium can be harmful to
people with kidney problems that need dialysis. If you have kidney problems,
please tell your provider before the test.

The strong magnetic fields created during an MRI can cause heart pacemakers
and other implants to not work as well. It can also cause other pieces of
metal inside your body to move or shift. For safety reasons, please do not
bring anything that contains metal into the scanner room.

## Alternative Names

Magnetic resonance imaging - lumbar spine; MRI - lower back

## References

Chou R, Qaseem A, Owens DK, Shekelle P; Clinical Guidelines Committee of the
American College of Physicians. Diagnostic imaging for low back pain: advice
for high-value health care from the American College of Physicians. _Ann
Intern Med_. 2011;154(3):181-189. PMID: 21282698
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21282698.

Curry BP, Rosner MK. Evaluation and treatment of lumbar disk disease. In: Winn
HR, ed. _Youmans and Winn Neurological Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 286.

Gardocki RJ, Park AL. Degenerative disorders of the thoracic and lumbar spine.
In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_.
13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 39.

Sayah A, Berkowitz F. Head and spine imaging. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds.
_DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 124.

Wilkinson ID, Graves MJ. Magnetic resonance imaging. In: Adam A, Dixon AK,
Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic
Radiology: A Textbook of Medical Imaging_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 5.

## Review Date 3/17/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ankylosing
Spondylitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnkylosingSpondylitis_thumb.jpg)Ankylosing
Spondylitis _Read more_

![Back Pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BackPain_thumb.jpg)Back Pain _Read
more_

![Herniated
Disk](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HerniatedDisk_thumb.jpg)Herniated Disk
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

