Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003112.htm    
                                Description: A hump on the upper back between the shoulder blades is an area of fat accumulation on the back of the neck. The medical name of this condition is dorsocervical fat pad.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hump on upper back (dorsocervical fat pad)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003112.htm

# Hump on upper back (dorsocervical fat pad)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A hump on the upper back between the shoulder blades is an area of fat
accumulation on the back of the neck. The medical name of this condition is
dorsocervical fat pad.

## Considerations

A humpÂ between the shoulder bladesÂ by itself is not a sign of a specific
condition. The health care provider must consider this along with other
symptoms and test results.

## Causes

Causes of dorsocervical fat pad include any of the following:

    * Certain medicines used to treat HIV/AIDS
    * Long-term use of certain glucocorticoid medicines, including prednisone, cortisone, and hydrocortisone
    * Obesity (usually causes more generalized fat deposition)
    * High level of the hormone cortisol (caused by Cushing syndrome)
    * Certain genetic disorders that cause unusual fat accumulation
    * Madelung disease (multiple symmetrical lipomatosis) often associated with excess alcohol intake

Osteoporosis may cause a curvature of the spine in the neck called
kyphoscoliosis. This causes an abnormal shape, but does not by itself cause
excessive fat in the back of the neck.

## Home Care

If the hump is caused by a certain medicine, your provider may tell you to
stop taking the medicine or change the dosage. DO NOT stop taking the medicine
without first talking to your provider.

Diet and exercise can help you lose weight and may relieve some fat
accumulation due to obesity.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Make an appointment with your provider if you have an unexplained hump behind
the shoulders.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will perform a physical examination and ask about your medical
history and symptoms. Tests may be ordered to determine the cause.

Treatment will be aimed at the problem that caused the fat to develop in the
first place.

## Alternative Names

Buffalo hump; Dorsocervical fat pad

## References

Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV, Duncan KO, Ko CJ. Lypodystrophies. In: Bolognia JL,
Schaffer JV, Duncan KO, Ko CJ, eds. _Dermatology Essentials_. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 84.

Tsoukis MA, Mantzoros CS. Lypodystrophy syndromes. In: Jameson JL, De Groot
LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 37.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cushing's
Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cushing'sSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Cushing's
Syndrome _Read more_

![Neck Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NeckInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Neck
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Osteoporosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Osteoporosis2_thumb.jpg)Osteoporosis
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

