

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Influenza (Flu)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

          * Facebook
          * Twitter
          * LinkedIn
          * Email
          * Syndicate

# Information on Avian Influenza

EspaÃ±ol

Minus

Related Pages

Avian influenza refers to the disease caused by infection with avian (bird)
influenza (flu) Type A viruses. These viruses occur naturally among wild
aquatic birds worldwide and can infect domestic poultry and other bird and
animal species. Avian flu viruses do not normally infect humans. However,
sporadic human infections with avian flu viruses have occurred. The links
below offer more information about avian influenza.

Bird Flu Basics

![avian-birds-tp4](/flu/images/avianflu/avian-birds-tp4.jpg)

          * Bird Flu in Birds
          * Bird Flu in People

More

Health Care Guidance

![Health care professionals](/flu/images/avianflu/health-care-lab-
guidance.jpg)

          * Case Definitions
          * Testing, Reporting & Lab Information

More

Bird Flu Updates

![avian-current-globe](/flu/images/avianflu/avian-current-globe.png)

          * Current Situation
          * Monitoring Bird Flu

More

people icon

Prevention

Take Action to Prevent the Spread of Flu Between Pigs and People

lab icon

Treatment

Influenza antiviral drugs can be used to treat influenza infections.

lab icon

Virus Subtypes

Avian influenza A viruses H5, H7 and H9 are known to infect people.

What CDC Does

![CDC works to improve global control and prevention of seasonal and novel
influenza, including avian influenza viruses, and works to improve influenza
pandemic preparedness and response.](/flu/images/avianflu/what-cdc-does-avian-
flu.jpg)

CDC works to improve global control and prevention of seasonal and novel
influenza, including avian influenza viruses, and works to improve influenza
pandemic preparedness and response.

Flu Can Spread Between Birds and People

![Avian Influenza Transmission Infographic](/flu/images/avianflu/avian-flu-
transmission.jpg)

Avian Influenza Transmission Infographic pdf icon[555 KB, 2 Pages]

Spanish pdf icon[531 KB, 2 Pages]

Simplified Chinese pdf icon[581 KB, 2 Pages]

Avian Flu Microsite

![Wild aquatic birds - particularly certain wild ducks, geese, swans, gulls,
shorebirds and terns - are the natural hosts for all known influenza type A
viruses.](/flu/images/avianflu/avian-flu-testing-chicks.jpg)

Add the most current avian influenza information to your website!

More Information

          * Interim Guidance on Testing, Specimen Collection, and Processing for Patients with Suspected Infection with Novel Influenza A Viruses with the Potential to Cause Severe Disease in Humans
          * Pandemic Influenza
          * Related Links
          * Research
          * Glossary of Influenza (Flu) Terms

Page last reviewed: March 21, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD)

home Avian Flu

          * Bird Flu Basics expand
            * Avian Influenza Type A Viruses
            * Bird Flu in Birds
            * Bird Flu in People expand
              * Spread of Bird Flu Viruses Between Animals and People
              * Examples of Human Infections with Avian Influenza A Viruses with Possible Limited, Non-Sustained Human-to-Human Transmission
          * Prevention and Treatment
          * Information for Specific Groups expand
            * Information for People Exposed to Birds Infected with Avian Influenza Viruses of Public Health Concern
            * Recommendations for Worker Protection and Use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) 
            * Self-Observation Instructions for Demobilizing Bird Flu Responders
          * Current Situation
          * Specific Avian Flu Viruses expand
            * Avian Influenza Type A Viruses
            * Asian Avian Influenza A (H5N1) expand
              * H5N1 in Birds and Other Animals
              * H5N1 in People
              * Public Health Threat of Highly Pathogenic Asian Avian Influenza A (H5N1) Virus
              * H5N1 Genetic Changes Inventory expand
                * Inventory Preamble
                * Inventory
                * Questions & Answers: H5N1 Genetic Change Inventory
              * HPAI A H5 Virus Background and Clinical Illness
            * Asian Lineage Avian Influenza A (H7N9) Virus expand
              *               *                 * H7N9 Images
              * Publications & Resources
              * Pandemic Response Planning Tips
            * North American Lineage AI Viruses
          * Past Outbreaks expand
            * H5 Viruses in the United States
            * U.S. H5 outbreaks in 2014-2015
            * U.S. H7N8 in 2016
            * U.S. H7N2 in cats in 2016
          * Health Care & Laboratorian Guidance expand
            * Case Definitions expand
              * U.S. H5 Virus Case Definitions
              * Asian H5N1 Case Definitions
              * Asian H7N9 Case Definitions
            * Testing, Reporting & Lab Information expand
              * Specimen Collection and Testing for Patients with Novel Influenza A Viruses with Potential to Cause Severe Disease in Humans
              * Specimen Collection and Testing for Patients with Novel Influenza A Viruses Associated with Severe Disease in Humans
              * Diagnostics for Detecting H7N9 Using rRT-PCR
              * CDC and USDA: Interim Risk Assessment and Biosafety Level Recommendations for Working with Influenza A (H7N9) Viruses
            * Infection Control Within Healthcare Settings for Patients with Novel Influenza A Viruses
            * Treatment and Prophylaxis expand
              * For Clinicians: Evaluating and Managing Patients
              * Use of Antiviral Medications for Treatment of Human Infections with Novel Influenza A Viruses
              * Antiviral Chemoprophylaxis of Persons Exposed to Birds with Avian Influenza A Viruses
              * Follow-up of Close Contacts of Persons Infected with Novel Influenza A Viruses and Use of Antiviral Chemoprophylaxis
          * What CDC Does expand
            * Monitoring
            * Risk Assessment & Research expand
              * Researching the Virus 
              * Dual Use Research of Concern
            * Preparedness and Response expand
              * Making a Candidate Vaccine Virus 
          * Avian Influenza Related Links
          * News & Spotlights

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

![1918 Pandemic flu commemoration website.](/flu/images/pandemic-1918-flu.jpg)



Influenza Types

          * Seasonal
          * Avian
          * Swine/Variant
          * Pandemic
          * Influenza in Animals

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

          * About CDC
          * Jobs
          * Funding
          * Policies
          * File Viewers & Players

          * Privacy
          * FOIA
          * No Fear Act
          * OIG
          * Nondiscrimination
          * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

          * Facebook
          * Twitter
          * Youtube
          * Instagram
  

          * Syndicate
          * CDC TV
          * RSS
          * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

          * Facebook
          * Twitter
          * LinkedIn
          * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

          * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
          * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
          * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
          * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

