Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003807.htm    
                                Description: A lumbosacral spine x-ray is a picture of the small bones (vertebrae) in the lower part of the spine. This area includes the lumbar region and the sacrum, the area that connects the spine to the pelvis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lumbosacral spine x-ray

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003807.htm

# Lumbosacral spine x-ray

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A lumbosacral spine x-ray is a picture of the small bones (vertebrae) in the
lower part of the spine. This area includes the lumbar region and the sacrum,
the area that connects the spine to the pelvis.

## How the Test is Performed

The test is done in a hospital x-ray department or your health care provider's
office by an x-ray technician. You will be asked to lie on the x-ray table in
different positions. If the x-ray is being done to diagnose an injury, care
will be taken to prevent further injury.

The x-ray machine will be placed over the lower part of your spine. You will
be asked to hold your breath as the picture is taken so that the image will
not be blurry. In most cases, 3 to 5 pictures are taken.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Tell the provider if you are pregnant. Take off all jewelry.

## How the Test will Feel

There is rarely any discomfort when having an x-ray, although the table may be
cold.

## Why the Test is Performed

Often, the provider will treat a person with low back pain for 4 to 8 weeks
before ordering an x-ray.

The most common reason for lumbosacral spine x-ray is to look for the cause of
low back pain that:

    * Occurs after injury
    * Is severe
    * Does not go away after 4 to 8 weeks
    * Is present in an older person 

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Lumbosacral spine x-rays may show:

    * Abnormal curves of the spine
    * Abnormal wear on the cartilage and bones of the lower spine, such as bone spurs and narrowing of the joints between the vertebrae
    * Cancer (although cancer often cannot be seen on this type of x-ray)
    * Fractures
    * Signs of thinning bones (osteoporosis)
    * Spondylolisthesis, in which a bone (vertebra) in the lower part of the spine slips out of the proper position onto the bone below it 

Though some of these findings may be seen on an x-ray, they are not always the
cause of back pain.

Many problems in the spine cannot be diagnosed using a lumbosacral x-ray,
including:

    * Sciatica
    * Slipped or herniated disc
    * Spinal stenosis \- narrowing of the spinal column 

## Risks

There is low radiation exposure. X-ray machines are checked often to make sure
they are as safe as possible. Most experts feel that the risk is low compared
with the benefits.

Pregnant women should not be exposed to radiation, if at all possible. Care
should be taken before children receive x-rays.

## Considerations

There are some back problems that an x-ray will not find. That is because they
involve the muscles, nerves, and other soft tissues. A lumbosacral spine CT or
lumbosacral spine MRI are better options for soft tissue problems.

## Alternative Names

X-ray - lumbosacral spine; X-ray - lower spine

## Images

    * ![Skeletal spine](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1116t.jpg)Skeletal spine
    * ![Vertebra, lumbar \(low back\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1773t.jpg)Vertebra, lumbar (low back)
    * ![Vertebra, thoracic \(mid back\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1774t.jpg)Vertebra, thoracic (mid back)
    * ![Vertebral column](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1775t.jpg)Vertebral column
    * ![Sacrum](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19464t.jpg)Sacrum
    * ![Posterior spinal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9766t.jpg)Posterior spinal anatomy

## References

Bearcroft PWP, Hopper MA. Imaging techniques and fundamental observations for
the musculoskeletal system. In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop
CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic Radiology: A Textbook of Medical
Imaging_. 6th ed. New York, NY: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 45.

Contreras F, Perez J, Jose J. Imaging overview. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR.
eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 7.

Parizel PM, Van Thielen T, van den Hauwe L, Van Goethem JW. Degenerative
disease of the spine. In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM,
eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic Radiology: A Textbook of Medical
Imaging_. 6th ed. New York, NY: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 55.

Warner WC, Sawyer JR. Scoliosis and kyphosis. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale
ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 44.

## Review Date 5/13/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Back Injuries](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BackInjuries_thumb.jpg)Back
Injuries _Read more_

![Back Pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BackPain_thumb.jpg)Back Pain _Read
more_

![Herniated
Disk](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HerniatedDisk_thumb.jpg)Herniated Disk
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

