Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000490.htm    
                                Description: Getting enough calcium and vitamin D in your diet can help maintain bone strength and lessen your risk of developing osteoporosis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Calcium, vitamin D, and your bones

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000490.htm

# Calcium, vitamin D, and your bones

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Getting enough calcium and vitamin D in your diet can help maintain bone
strength and lessen your risk of developing osteoporosis.

## Bone Strength and Calcium

Your body needs calcium to keep your bones dense and strong. Low bone density
can cause your bones to become brittle and fragile. These weak bones can break
more easily, even without an obvious injury.

Vitamin D helps your body absorb calcium. Eat foods that provide the right
amounts of calcium, vitamin D, and protein. This kind of diet will give your
body the building blocks it needs to make and maintain strong bones.

In addition to getting enough calcium and vitamin D, you can reduce your risk
of developing osteoporosis by exercising regularly and avoiding smoking and
excessive alcohol use.

## How Much Calcium and Vitamin D do I Need?

Amounts of calcium are given in milligrams (mg), and vitamin D is given in
international units (IU).

All children ages 9 to 18 should have:

    * 1300 mg of calcium daily
    * 600 IU of vitamin D daily 

All adults under age 50 should have:

    * 1000 mg of calcium daily
    * 400 to 800 IU of vitamin D daily 

Adults age 51 and older should have:

    * Women: 1200 mg of calcium daily
    * Men: 1000 mg of calcium daily 

Men and women: 800 to 1000 IU of vitamin D daily

Too much calcium or vitamin D can lead to problems such as an increased risk
for kidney stones.

    * Total calcium should not exceed 2000 mg per day
    * Total vitamin D should not exceed 4000 IU per day 
![Calcium source](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18122.jpg)

## Calcium and Dairy Products

Milk and dairy products are the best sources of calcium. They contain a form
of calcium that your body can absorb easily. Choose yogurts, cheeses, and
buttermilk.

Adults should choose fat-free (skim) milk or low-fat (2% or 1%) milk, and
other lower fat dairy products. Removing some of the fat does not lower the
amount of calcium in a dairy product.

    * Yogurt, most cheeses, and buttermilk come in fat-free or low-fat versions.
    * Vitamin D helps your body use calcium, which is why vitamin D is often added to milk. 

If you eat very few or no dairy products, you can find calcium in other foods.
It is often added to orange juice, soy milk, tofu, ready-to-eat cereals, and
breads. Check the labels on these foods for added calcium.

## Other Sources of Calcium

Green leafy vegetables, such as broccoli, collards, kale, mustard greens,
turnip greens, and bok choy (Chinese cabbage), are good sources of calcium.

Other good food sources of calcium are:

    * Salmon and sardines that are canned with their bones (you can eat these soft bones)
    * Almonds, Brazil nuts, sunflower seeds, tahini (sesame paste), and dried beans
    * Blackstrap molasses 

Other tips to make sure your body can use the calcium in your diet:

    * Cook high-calcium vegetables in a small amount of water for the shortest possible time. They willÂ retain more calcium this way.
    * Be careful about what you eat with calcium-rich foods. Certain fibers, such as wheat bran and foods with oxalic acid (spinach and rhubarb), can prevent your body from absorbing calcium. 

Your doctor may recommend a calcium or vitamin D supplement for the calcium
and vitamin D you need. However, the balance between benefits and harms of
these supplements is unclear.

## Alternative Names

Osteoporosis - calcium; Osteoporosis - low bone density

## Images

    * ![Calcium source](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18122t.jpg)Calcium source
    * ![Osteoporosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17285t.jpg)Osteoporosis
    * ![Osteoporosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17287t.jpg)Osteoporosis
    * ![Vitamin D source](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18112t.jpg)Vitamin D source
    * ![Calcium benefit](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18121t.jpg)Calcium benefit

## References

Cosman F, de Beur SJ, LeBoff MS, et al. Clinician's guide to prevention and
treatment of osteoporosis. _Osteoporos Int_. 2014;25(10):2359-2381. PMID:
25182228 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25182228.

National Institutes of Health, Office of Dietary Supplements website. Fact
sheet for health professionals: Calcium. ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/Calcium-
HealthProfessional. Updated March 2, 2017. Accessed July 10, 2018.

US Preventive Services Task Force; Grossman DC, Curry SJ, Owens DK, et al.
Vitamin D, calcium, or combined supplementation for the primary prevention of
fractures in community-dwelling adults: US Preventive Services Task Force
recommendation statement. _JAMA_. 2018;319(15):1592-1599. PMID: 29677309
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29677309.

## Review Date 4/12/2018

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, ABIM Board Certified in Rheumatology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Calcium
    * Osteoporosis
    * Vitamin D

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

