Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003806.htm    
                                Description: A thoracic spine x-ray is an x-ray of the 12 chest (thoracic) bones (vertebrae). The vertebrae are separated by flat pads of cartilage called disks that provide a cushion between the bones.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Thoracic spine x-ray

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003806.htm

# Thoracic spine x-ray

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A thoracic spine x-ray is an x-ray of the 12 chest (thoracic) bones
(vertebrae). The vertebrae are separated by flat pads of cartilage called
disks that provide a cushion between the bones.

## How the Test is Performed

The test is done in a hospital radiology department or in the health care
provider's office. You will lie on the x-ray table in different positions. If
the x-ray is checking for an injury, care will be taken to prevent further
injury.

The x-ray machine will be moved over the thoracic area of the spine. You will
hold your breath as the picture is taken, so that the picture will not be
blurry. Usually 2 or 3 x-ray views are needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Tell the provider if you are pregnant. Also tell the provider if you have had
surgery in your chest, abdomen, or pelvis.

Remove all jewelry.

## How the Test will Feel

The test causes no discomfort. The table may be cold.

## Why the Test is Performed

The x-ray helps evaluate:

    * Bone injuries
    * Cartilage loss
    * Diseases of the bone
    * Tumors of the bone 

## What Abnormal Results Mean

The test can detect:

    * Bone spurs
    * Deformities of the spine
    * Disk narrowing
    * Dislocations
    * Fractures
    * Thinning of the bone (osteoporosis)
    * Wearing away (degeneration) of the vertebrae 

## Risks

There is low radiation exposure. X-rays are monitored and regulated to provide
the minimum amount of radiation exposure needed to produce the image. Most
experts feel that the risk is low compared with the benefits.

Pregnant women and children are more sensitive to the risks of x-rays.

## Considerations

The x-ray will not detect problems in the muscles, nerves, and other soft
tissues, because these problems cannot be seen well on an x-ray.

## Alternative Names

Vertebral radiography; X-ray - spine; Thoracic x-ray; Spine x-ray; Thoracic
spine films; Back films

## Images

    * ![Skeletal spine](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1116t.jpg)Skeletal spine
    * ![Vertebra, thoracic \(mid back\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1774t.jpg)Vertebra, thoracic (mid back)
    * ![Vertebral column](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1775t.jpg)Vertebral column
    * ![Intervertebral disk](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19469t.jpg)Intervertebral disk
    * ![Anterior skeletal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9065t.jpg)Anterior skeletal anatomy

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Radiography of skull, chest, and cervical spine â
diagnostic. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic
Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:953-954.

Van Thielen T, van den Hauwe L, Van Goethem JW, Parizel PM. Imaging techniques
and anatomy. In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds.
_Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic Radiology: A Textbook of Medical Imaging_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 54.

## Review Date 9/7/2017

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bone Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneCancer_thumb.jpg)Bone Cancer
_Read more_

![Bone Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bone
Diseases _Read more_

![Osteoporosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Osteoporosis2_thumb.jpg)Osteoporosis
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

