Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000360.htm    
                                Description: Osteoporosis is a disease in which bones become fragile and more likely to break (fracture).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Osteoporosis - overview

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000360.htm

# Osteoporosis - overview

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Osteoporosis is a disease in which bones become fragile and more likely to
break (fracture).

## Causes

Osteoporosis is the most common type of bone disease.

Osteoporosis increases the risk of breaking a bone. About one half of all
women over the age of 50 will have a fracture of the hip, wrist, or vertebra
(bones of the spine) during their lifetime. Spine fractures are the most
common.

Your body needs the minerals calcium and phosphate to make and keep healthy
bones.

    * During your life, your body continues to both reabsorb old bone and create new bone.
    * As long as your body has a good balance of new and old bone, your bones stay healthy and strong.
    * Bone loss occurs when more old bone is reabsorbed than new bone is created. 

Sometimes, bone loss occurs without any known cause. Other times, bone loss
and thin bones run in families. In general, white, older women are the most
likely to have bone loss.

Brittle, fragile bones can be caused by anything that makes your body destroy
too much bone, or keeps your body from making enough new bone. As you age,
your body may reabsorb calcium and phosphate from your bones instead of
keeping these minerals in your bones. This makes your bones weaker.

![Osteoporosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200027t.gif)Watch
this video about:Osteoporosis

A major risk is not having enough calcium to build new bone tissue. It is
important to eat/drink enough high-calcium foods. You also need vitamin D,
because it helps your body absorb calcium. Your bones may become brittle and
more likely to fracture if:

    * If you do not eat enough food with calcium and vitamin D
    * Your body does not absorb enough calcium from your food, such as after gastric bypass surgery 

Other causes of bone loss include:

    * A decrease in estrogen in women at the time of menopause and a decrease in testosterone in men as they age
    * Being confined to a bed due to a prolonged illness (mostly affects bones in children)
    * Having certain medical conditions that cause increased inflammation in the body
    * Taking certain medicines, such as certain seizure medicines, hormone treatments for prostate or breast cancer, and steroid medicines taken for more than 3 months 

Other risk factors include:

    * Absence of menstrual periods for long periods of time
    * A family history of osteoporosis
    * Drinking a large amount of alcohol
    * Low body weight
    * Smoking
    * Having an eating disorder, such as anorexia nervosa 

## Symptoms

There are no symptoms in the early stages of osteoporosis. Many times, people
will have a fracture before learning they have the disease.

Fractures of the bones of the spine can cause pain almost anywhere in the
spine. These are called compression fractures. They often occur without an
injury. The pain occurs suddenly or slowly over time.

There can be a loss of height (as much as 6 inches or 15 centimeters) over
time. A stooped posture or a condition called a dowager's hump may develop.

## Exams and Tests

A DEXA scan is a low-radiation x-ray that measures the density of the minerals
in your bones. Most often, it measures density in the spine and hip bones.
Your health care provider uses this test to:

    * Diagnose bone loss and osteoporosis.
    * Predict your risk for future bone fractures.
    * See how well osteoporosis medicine is working. (The DEXA is most often repeated every 2 years.)

A simple spine or hip x-ray may show fracture or collapse of the spinal bones.
However, simple x-rays of other bones are not very accurate in predicting
whether you are likely to have osteoporosis. A new low-radiation spine x-ray
called a vertebral fracture assessment (VFA) is now often done with a DEXA to
better identify fractures that do not have any symptoms.

You may need blood and urine tests if your provider thinks the cause of your
osteoporosis is a medical condition, rather than the slow bone loss that
occurs with aging.

DEXA scan results compare your bone mineral density with both a young adult
who has no bone loss and with people your age and gender. This means that at
age 80, almost one third of women with normal age-related bone loss would have
osteoporosis, based on their DEXA scan results.

## Treatment

Treatment for osteoporosis may involve:

    * Making lifestyle changes, such as changing your diet and exercise routine
    * Taking calcium and vitamin D supplements
    * Using medicines 

Medicines are used to strengthen bones when:

    * Osteoporosis has been diagnosed by a bone density study, whether or not you have a fracture, and your fracture risk is high.
    * You have had a bone fracture, and a bone density test shows that you have thin bones, but not osteoporosis. 

Medicines used to treat osteoporosis include:

    * Bisphosphonates -- the main drugs used to prevent and treat osteoporosis in postmenopausal women. They can be given by mouth or by IV.
    * DenusomabÂ -- lessens bone loss and increases bone density. Given by injection under the skin.
    * Teriparatide or abaloparatideÂ -- man-made forms of a hormone your body makes that increases bone density.
    * Romosozumab -- a newer drug for more severe bone thinning.  
Estrogen receptor modulators.  
Calcitonin -- a man-made form of a hormone your body makes that increases bone
density. Used mainly to treat the sudden pain from a spine fracture Â

The length of time a woman needs to take these medicines depends on her level
of risk. Recommendations include:

    * Low fracture risk -- 5 years of oral medicine or 3 years of IV therapy
    * High fracture risk -- 10 years of oral medicine or 6 years of IV therapy 

Exercise plays a key role in preserving bone density in older adults. Some of
the exercises recommended to reduce your chance of a fracture include:

    * Weight-bearing exercises, such as walking, jogging, playing tennis, or dancing for at least 30 minutes, three times per week.
    * Free weights, weight machines, stretch bands
    * Balance exercises, such as tai chi and yoga
    * Rowing machines 

Avoid any exercise that presents a risk of falling. Also, do not do high-
impact exercises that can cause fractures in older adults.

![Bone-building
exercise](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19081.jpg)

Follow these guidelines for getting enough calcium and vitamin D:

    * Adults under age 50 should have 1,000 mg of calcium and 400 to 800 International Units (IU) of vitamin D a day.
    * Women ages 51 to 70 should have 1,200 mg of calcium and 400 to 800 IU of vitamin D a day.
    * Men ages 51 to 70 should have 1,000 mg of calcium and 400 to 800 IU of vitamin D a day.
    * Adults over age 70 should have 1,200 mg of calcium and 800 IU of vitamin D a day.
    * Your provider may recommend a calcium supplement.
    * Follow a diet that provides the proper amount of calcium and vitamin D. Use supplements to make up for the shortage only if your diet does not have the recommended amounts.
    * Your provider may recommend higher doses of vitamin D if you have risk factors for osteoporosis or a low level of this vitamin. 

(Note: Some expert groups are not sure the benefits and safety of these
amounts of vitamin D and calcium outweigh their risks. Be sure to discuss with
your provider whether supplements are a good choice for you.)

![Vitamin D source](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18112.jpg)

Stop unhealthy habits:

    * Quit smoking, if you smoke.
    * Limit your alcohol intake. Too much alcohol can damage your bones. This puts you at risk of falling and breaking a bone. 

It is important to prevent falls by older people. These suggestions can help:

    * Do not take medicines that make you drowsy and unsteady. If you must take them, be extra careful when you are up and moving around. For example, hold on to countertops or sturdy furniture to avoid falling.
    * Remove household hazards, such as throw rugs, to reduce the risk of falls.
    * Leave lights on at night so you can see better when walking around your house.
    * Install and use safety grab bars in the bathroom.
    * Install antislip flooring in bathtubs and showers.
    * Make sure your vision is good. Have your eyes checked once or twice a year by an eye doctor.
    * Wear shoes that fit well and have low heels. This includes slippers. Slippers that do not have heels can cause you to trip and fall.
    * Do not walk outdoors alone on icy days. 

Surgery to treat severe, disabling pain from spinal fractures due to
osteoporosis include:

    * Kyphoplasty (a material is placed into a bone of your spine to restore the height of the vertebrae)
    * Spinal fusion (bones of your spine are joined together so they do not move against each other) 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Medicines to treat osteoporosis can help prevent future fractures. Spine bones
that have already collapsed can't be made stronger.

Osteoporosis can cause a person to become disabled from weakened bones. Hip
fractures are one of the main reasons people are admitted to nursing homes.

## Prevention

Be sure you get enough calcium and vitamin D to build and maintain healthy
bones. Following a healthy, well-balanced diet can help you get these and
other important nutrients.

Other tips for prevention:

    * Do not drink large amounts of alcohol.
    * Do not smoke.
    * Get regular exercise.

Medicines can treat osteoporosis and prevent fractures. Your provider can tell
you if any are right for you.

## Alternative Names

Thin bones; Low bone density; Metabolic bone disease; Hip fracture -
osteoporosis; Compression fracture - osteoporosis; Wrist fracture -
osteoporosis

## Patient Instructions

    * Hip fracture - discharge 
    * Preventing falls

## Images

    * ![Compression fracture](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9212t.jpg)Compression fracture
    * ![Bone density scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1073t.jpg)Bone density scan
    * ![Osteoporosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17285t.jpg)Osteoporosis
    * ![Osteoporosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17287t.jpg)Osteoporosis
    * ![Hip fracture](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18026t.jpg)Hip fracture
    * ![Vitamin D source](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18112t.jpg)Vitamin D source
    * ![Calcium benefit](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18121t.jpg)Calcium benefit
    * ![Calcium source](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18122t.jpg)Calcium source
    * ![Bone-building exercise](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19081t.jpg)Bone-building exercise
    * ![Changes in spine with age](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8664t.jpg)Changes in spine with age

## References

Adler RA, El-Hajj Fuleihan G, Bauer DC, et al. Managing osteoporosis in
patients on long-term bisphosphonate treatment: report of a Task Force of the
American Society for Bone and Mineral Research. _J Bone Miner Res_.
2016;31(10):1910. PMID: 27759931 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27759931.

Black DM, Rosen CJ. Clinical practice: postmenopausal osteoporosis. _N Engl J
Med_. 2016;374(3):254-262. PMID: 26789873
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26789873.

Compston JE, McClung MR, Leslie WD. Osteoporosis. _Lancet._
2019;393(10169):364-376. PMID: 30696576 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30696576.Â

Cosman F, de Beur SJ, LeBoff MS, et al; National Osteoporosis Foundation.
Clinician's guide to prevention and treatment of osteoporosis. _Osteoporos
Int_. 2014;25(10):2359-2381. PMID: 25182228
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25182228.

De Paula FJA, Black DM, Rosen CJ. Osteoporosis: basic and clinical aspects.
In: Melmed S, Auchus RJ, Goldfine AB, Loenig RJ, et al, eds. _Williams
Textbook of Endocrinology_. 14th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 30.

Eastell R, Rosen CJ, Black DM, et al. Pharmacological management of
osteoporosis in postmenopausal women: an Endocrine Society* clinical practice
guideline. _J Clin Endocrinol Metab._ 2019;104(5):1595-1622. PMID: 30907593
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30907953.

Kemmler W, Bebenek M, Kohl M, von Stengel S. Exercise and fractures in
postmenopausal women. Final results of the controlled Erlangen Fitness and
Osteoporosis Prevention Study (EFOPS). _Osteoporos Int_.
2015;26(10):2491-2499. PMID: 25963237 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25963237.

Moyer VA; U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Vitamin D and calcium
supplementation to prevent fractures in adults: U.S. Preventive Services Task
Force recommendation statement. _Ann Intern Med_. 2013;158(9):691-696. PMID:
23440163 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23440163.

Qaseem A, Forciea MA, McLean RM, et al. Treatment of low bone density or
osteoporosis to prevent fractures in men and women: a clinical practice
guideline update from the American College of Physicians. _Ann Intern Med._
2017;166(11):818-839. PMID: 28492856 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28492856.

## Review Date 1/21/2020

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, MACR, ABIM Board Certified in
Rheumatology, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Osteoporosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Osteoporosis2_thumb.jpg)Osteoporosis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

