Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000443.htm    
                                Description: Compression fractures of the back are broken vertebrae. Vertebrae are the bones of the spine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Compression fractures of the back

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000443.htm

# Compression fractures of the back

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Compression fractures of the back are broken vertebrae. Vertebrae are the
bones of the spine.

## Causes

Osteoporosis is the most common cause of this type of fracture. Osteoporosis
is a disease in which bones become fragile. In most cases, bone loses calcium
and other minerals with age.Â Other causes may include:

    * Trauma to the back
    * Tumors that started in the bone or spread to the bone from elsewhere
    * Tumors that start in the spine, such as multiple myeloma 

Having many fractures of the vertebrae can lead to kyphosis. This is a hump-
like curvature of the spine.

## Symptoms

Compression fractures can occur suddenly. This can cause severe back pain.

    * The pain is most commonly felt in the middle or lower spine. It can also be felt on the sides or in the front of the spine.
    * The pain is sharp and "knife-like." Pain can be disabling, and take weeks to months to go away. 

Compression fractures due to osteoporosis may cause no symptoms at first.
Often, they are discovered when x-rays of the spine are done for other
reasons. Over time, the following symptoms may occur:

    * Back pain that starts slowly, and gets worse with walking, but is not felt when resting
    * Loss of height, as much as 6 inches (15 centimeters) over time
    * Stooped-over posture, or kyphosis, also called a dowager's hump 

Pressure on the spinal cord from hunched over posture can, in rare cases,
cause:

    * Numbness
    * Tingling
    * Weakness
    * Difficulty walking
    * Loss of control of the bowel or bladder 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a physical exam. This may show:

    * A humpback, or kyphosis
    * Tenderness over the affected spinal bone or bones

A spine x-rayÂ may showÂ at leastÂ 1 compressed vertebra that is shorter than
the other vertebrae.

Other tests that may be done:

    * A bone density test to evaluate for osteoporosis
    * A CT or MRI scan, if there is a concern that the fracture was caused by a tumor or severe trauma (such as a fall or car accident)

## Treatment

Most compression fractures are seen in older people with osteoporosis. These
fractures often do not cause injury to the spinal cord. The condition is
usually treated with medicines and calcium supplements to prevent further
fractures.

Pain may be treated with:

    * Pain medicine
    * Bed rest 

Other treatments may include:

    * Back braces, but these may further weaken the bones and increase the risk for more fractures
    * Physical therapy to improve movement and strength around the spine
    * A medicine called calcitonin to help relieve bone pain 

Surgery may be done if you have severe and disabling pain for more than 2
months that does not get better with other treatments. Surgery can include:

    * Balloon kyphoplasty
    * Vertebroplasty
    * Spinal fusion

Other surgery may be done to remove bone if the fracture is due to a tumor.

After surgery you may need:

    * A brace for 6 to 10 weeks if the fracture was due to an injury.
    * More surgery to join spine bones together or to relieve pressure on a nerve.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most compression fractures due to injury heal in 8 to 10 weeks with rest,
wearing of a brace, and pain medicines. However, recovery can take much longer
if surgery was done.

Fractures due to osteoporosis often become less painful with rest and pain
medicines. Some fractures, though, can lead to long-term (chronic) pain and
disability.

Medicines to treat osteoporosis can help prevent future fractures. However,
medicines cannot reverse damage that has already occurred.

For compression fractures caused by tumors, the outcome depends on the type of
tumor involved. Tumors that involve the spine include:

    * Breast cancer
    * Lung cancer
    * Lymphoma
    * Prostate cancer
    * Multiple myeloma
    * Hemangioma

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Failure of the bones to fuse after surgery
    * Humpback
    * Spinal cord or nerve root compression 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You have back pain and you think you may have a compression fracture.
    * Your symptoms are getting worse, or you have problems controlling your bladder and bowel function. 

## Prevention

Taking steps to prevent and treat osteoporosis is the most effective way to
prevent compression or insufficiency fractures. Getting regular load-bearing
exercise (such as walking) can help you avoid bone loss.

You should also have your bone density checked periodically, especially for
women that is post-menopausal. You should also have more frequent checkup if
you have family history of osteoporosis or compression fractures.

## Alternative Names

Vertebral compression fractures; Osteoporosis - compression fracture

## Images

    * ![Compression fracture](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9212t.jpg)Compression fracture

## References

Cosman F, de Beur SJ, LeBoff MS, et al. Clinician's guide to prevention and
treatment of osteoporosis. _Osteoporos Int_. 2014;25(10):2359-2381. PMID:
25182228 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25182228.

Savage JW, Anderson PA. Osteoporotic spinal fractures. In: Browner BD, Jupiter
JB, Krettek C, Anderson PA, eds. _Skeletal Trauma: Basic Science, Management,
and Reconstruction_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 35.

Waldman SD. Thoracic vertebral compression fracture. In: Waldman SD, ed.
_Atlas of Common Pain Syndromes_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 73.

Williams KD. Fractures, dislocations, and fracture-dislocations of the spine.
In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_.
13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 41.

## Review Date 7/7/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Back Injuries](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BackInjuries_thumb.jpg)Back
Injuries _Read more_

![Osteoporosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Osteoporosis2_thumb.jpg)Osteoporosis
_Read more_

![Lesiones y enfermedades de la columna
vertebral](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpineInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Spine
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

