Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000101.htm    
                                Description: Hypertension is another term used to describe high blood pressure. High blood pressure can lead to:     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Controlling your high blood pressure

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000101.htm

# Controlling your high blood pressure

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hypertension is another term used to describe high blood pressure. High blood
pressure can lead to:

    * Stroke
    * Heart attack
    * Heart failure
    * Kidney disease
    * Early death

You are more likely to have high blood pressure as you get older. This is
because your blood vessels become stiffer as you age. When that happens, your
blood pressure goes up.

## When is Your Blood Pressure a Concern?

If your blood pressure is high, you need to lower it and keep it under
control. Your blood pressure reading has 2 numbers. One or both of these
numbers can be too high.

    * The top number is called the **systolic blood pressure**. For most people, this reading is too high if it is 140 or higher.
    * The bottom number is called the **diastolic blood pressure**. For most people, this reading is too high if it is 90 or higher. 

The above blood pressure numbers are goals that most experts agree on for most
people. For people age 60 years and above, some health care providers
recommend a blood pressure goal of 150/90. Your provider will consider how
these goals apply to you specifically.

## Medicines for Blood Pressure

Many medicines can help you control your blood pressure. Your provider will:

    * Prescribe the best medicine for you
    * Monitor your medicines
    * Make changes if needed 

Older adults tend to take more medicines and this puts them at greater risk
for harmful side effects. One side effect of blood pressure medicine is an
increased risk for falls. When treating older adults, blood pressure goals
need to be balanced against medicine side effects.

## Diet, Exercise, and Other Lifestyle Changes

In addition to taking medicine, you can do many things to help control your
blood pressure. Some of these include:

    * Limit the amount of sodium (salt) you eat. Aim for less than 1,500 mg per day.
    * Limit how much alcohol you drink, no more than 1 drink a day for women and 2 a day for men.
    * Eat a heart-healthy diet that includes the recommended amounts of potassium and fiber.
    * Drink plenty of water.
    * Stay at a healthy body weight. Find a weight-loss program, if you need it.
    * Exercise regularly. Get at least 40 minutes of moderate to vigorous aerobic exercise at least 3 to 4 days a week.
    * Reduce stress. Try to avoid things that cause you stress, and try meditation or yoga to de-stress.
    * If you smoke, quit. Find a program that will help you stop. 

Your provider can help you find programs for losing weight, stopping smoking,
and exercising. You can also get a referral to a dietitian from your provider.
The dietitian can help you plan a diet that is healthy for you.

## Checking Your Blood Pressure

Your blood pressure can be measured at many places, including:

    * Home
    * Your provider's office
    * Your local fire station
    * Some pharmacies 

Your provider may ask you to keep track of your blood pressure at home. Make
sure you get a good quality, well-fitting home device. It is best to have one
with a cuff for your arm and a digital readout. Practice with your provider to
make sure you are taking your blood pressure correctly.

It is normal for your blood pressure to be different at different times of the
day.

It is most often higher when you are at work. It drops slightly when you are
at home. It is most often lowest when you are sleeping.

It is normal for your blood pressure to increase suddenly when you wake up.
For people with very high blood pressure, this is when they are most at risk
for heart attack and stroke.

## Follow-up

Your provider will give you a physical exam and check your blood pressure
often. With your provider, establish a goal for your blood pressure.

![Blood pressure check](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19255.jpg)

If you monitor your blood pressure at home, keep a written record. Bring the
results to your clinic visit.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if your blood pressure goes well above your normal range.

Also call if you have any of the following symptoms:

    * Severe headache
    * Irregular heartbeat or pulse
    * Chest pain
    * Sweating
    * Nausea or vomiting
    * Shortness of breath
    * Dizziness or lightheadedness
    * Pain or tingling in the neck, jaw, shoulder, or arms
    * Numbness or weakness in your body
    * Fainting
    * Trouble seeing
    * Confusion
    * Difficulty speaking
    * Other side effects that you think might be from your medicine or your blood pressure 

## Alternative Names

Controlling hypertension

## Images

    * ![Taking your blood pressure at home](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22945t.jpg)Taking your blood pressure at home
    * ![Blood pressure check](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19255t.jpg)Blood pressure check
    * ![Low sodium diet](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22938t.jpg)Low sodium diet

## References

American Diabetes Association. 9. Cardiovascular disease and risk management:
standards of medical care in diabetes-2018. _Diabetes Care_. 2018;41(Suppl
1):S86-S104. PMID: 29222380 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29222380.

Ettehad D, Emdin CA, Kiran A, et al. Blood pressure lowering for prevention of
cardiovascular disease and death: a systematic review and meta-analysis.
_Lancet_. 2016;387(10022):957-967. PMID: 26724178
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26724178.

Rosendorff C, Lackland DT, Allison M, et al. Treatment of hypertension in
patients with coronary artery disease: a scientific statement from the
American Heart Association, American College of Cardiology, and American
Society of Hypertension. _Circulation_. 2015;131(19):e435-e470. PMID: 25829340
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25829340.

Victor RG, Libby P. Systemic hypertension: management. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 47.

Whelton PK, Carey RM, Aronow WS, et al.
ACC/AHA/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/AGS/APhA/ASH/ASPC/NMA/PCNA guideline for the prevention,
detection, evaluation, and management of high blood pressure in adults: a
report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task
Force on clinical practice guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol_.
2018;71(19):e127-e248. PMID: 29146535 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29146535.

## Read More

    * Angina
    * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery
    * Angioplasty and stent placement - peripheral arteries
    * Cardiac ablation procedures 
    * Carotid artery surgery
    * Coronary heart disease
    * Heart bypass surgery
    * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive
    * Heart failure - overview
    * Heart pacemaker
    * High blood cholesterol levels
    * High blood pressure - adults
    * Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator
    * Peripheral artery bypass - leg
    * Tips on how to quit smoking

## Patient Instructions

    * Abdominal aortic aneurysm repair - open - discharge 
    * ACE inhibitors
    * Angina - discharge
    * Angioplasty and stent - heart - discharge 
    * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery - discharge 
    * Angioplasty and stent placement - peripheral arteries - discharge 
    * Antiplatelet drugs - P2Y12 inhibitors
    * Aortic aneurysm repair - endovascular - discharge
    * Aspirin and heart disease
    * Atrial fibrillation - discharge 
    * Being active when you have heart disease
    * Butter, margarine, and cooking oils
    * Carotid artery surgery - discharge
    * Cholesterol and lifestyle
    * Cholesterol - drug treatment
    * Diabetes - preventing heart attack and stroke
    * Dietary fats explained
    * Fast food tips
    * Heart attack - discharge
    * Heart bypass surgery - discharge
    * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive - discharge
    * Heart disease - risk factors
    * Heart failure - discharge
    * Heart failure - fluids and diuretics
    * Heart failure - home monitoring
    * High blood pressure - what to ask your doctor 
    * How to read food labels
    * Low-salt diet 
    * Mediterranean diet
    * Peripheral artery bypass - leg - discharge 
    * Stroke - discharge 

## Review Date 7/25/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * High Blood Pressure
    * How to Prevent High Blood Pressure

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

