Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000491.htm    
                                Description: Malignant hypertension is very high blood pressure that comes on suddenly and quickly.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Malignant hypertension

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000491.htm

# Malignant hypertension

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Malignant hypertension is very high blood pressure that comes on suddenly and
quickly.

## Causes

The disorder affects a small number of people with high blood pressure,
including children and adults. It is more common in younger adults, especially
African American men.

It also occurs in people with:

    * Collagen vascular disorders (such as systemic lupus erythematosus, systemic sclerosis, and periarteritis nodosa)
    * Kidney problems
    * Pregnancy-induced high blood pressure (toxemia) 

You are at high risk for malignant hypertension if you smoke and if you have
had:

    * Kidney failure
    * Renal hypertension caused by renal artery stenosis 

## Symptoms

Symptoms of malignant hypertension include:

    * Blurred vision
    * Change in mental status, such as anxiety, confusion, decreased alertness, decreased ability to concentrate, fatigue, restlessness, sleepiness, or stupor
    * Chest pain (feeling of crushing or pressure)
    * Cough
    * Headache
    * Nausea or vomiting
    * Numbness of the arms, legs, face, or other areas
    * Reduced urine output
    * Seizure
    * Shortness of breath
    * Weakness of the arms, legs, face, or other areas 

## Exams and Tests

Malignant hypertension is a medical emergency.

A physical exam commonly shows:

    * Extremely high blood pressure
    * Swelling in the lower legs and feet
    * Abnormal heart sounds and fluid in the lungs
    * Changes in thinking, sensation, and reflexes 

An eye exam will reveal changes that indicate high blood pressure, including:

    * Bleeding of the retina (back part of the eye)
    * Narrowing of the blood vessels in the retina
    * Swelling of the optic nerve
    * Other problems with the retina

Tests to determine damage to the kidneys may include:

    * Arterial blood gas analysis
    * BUN (blood urea nitrogen)
    * Creatinine
    * Urinalysis
    * Kidney ultrasound 

A chest x-ray may show congestion in the lungs and an enlarged heart.

This disease may also affect the results of these tests:

    * Level of aldosterone (a hormone from the adrenal gland)
    * Cardiac enzymes (markers of heart damage)
    * CT scan of the brain
    * Electrocardiogram (EKG)
    * Renin level
    * Urinary sediment 

## Treatment

You will need to stay in the hospital until your severe high blood pressure is
under control. You will receive medicines through a vein (IV) to reduce your
blood pressure.

If there is fluid in your lungs, you will be given medicines called diuretics,
which help the body remove fluid. Your doctor may give you medicines to
protect your heart if you have signs of heart damage.

After your severe high blood pressure is under control, blood pressure
medicines taken by mouth can control blood pressure. Your medicine may need to
be changed sometimes. High blood pressure can be difficult to control.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Many body systems are at serious risk from the extreme rise in blood pressure.
Organs including the brain, eyes, blood vessels, heart, and kidneys may be
damaged.

The blood vessels of the kidney are very likely to be damaged by high blood
pressure. Kidney failure may develop, which may be permanent. If this happens,
you may need dialysis (machine that removes waste products from blood).

If treated right away, malignant hypertension can often be controlled without
causing permanent problems. If it is not treated right away, it can be fatal.

## Possible Complications

These complications may occur:

    * Brain damage (stroke, seizures)
    * Heart damage, including: heart attack, angina (chest pain due to narrowed blood vessels or weakened heart muscle), heart rhythm disturbances
    * Kidney failure
    * Permanent blindness
    * Fluid in the lungs

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the emergency room or call your local emergency number (such as 911) if
you have symptoms of malignant hypertension. This is an emergency condition
that can be life threatening.

Call your health care provider if you know you have poorly controlled high
blood pressure.

## Prevention

If you have high blood pressure, carefully monitor your blood pressure and
take your medicines properly to help reduce your risk. Eat a healthy diet that
is low in salt and fat.

## Alternative Names

Accelerated hypertension; Arteriolar nephrosclerosis; Nephrosclerosis -
arteriolar; Hypertension - malignant; High blood pressure - malignant

## Images

    * ![Hypertensive kidney](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8818t.jpg)Hypertensive kidney

## References

Bansal S, Linas SL. Hypertensive crisis: emergency and urgency. In: Vincent
J-L, Abraham E, Moore FA, Kochanek PM, Fink MP, eds. _Textbook of Critical
Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 87.

Greco BA, Umanath K. Renovascular hypertension and ischemic nephropathy. In:
Feehally J, Floege J, Tonelli M, Johnson RJ, eds. _Comprehensive Clinical
Nephrology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 41.

Kaynar AM. Arterial blood gas interpretation. In: Vincent J-L, Abraham E,
Moore FA, Kochanek PM, Fink MP, eds. _Textbook of Critical Care_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 36.

Levy PD, Brody A. Hypertension. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 74.

## Review Date 4/15/2019

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![High Blood
Pressure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HighBloodPressure_thumb.jpg)High
Blood Pressure _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

