Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000155.htm    
                                Description: Drug-induced hypertension is high blood pressure caused by a chemical substance or medicine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

High blood pressure - medicine-related

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000155.htm

# High blood pressure - medicine-related

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Drug-induced hypertension is high blood pressure caused by a chemical
substance or medicine.

## Causes

Blood pressure is determined by the:

    * Amount of blood the heart pumps
    * Condition of the heart valves
    * Pulse rate
    * Pumping power of the heart
    * Size and condition of the arteries 

There are several types of high blood pressure:

    * Essential hypertension has no cause that can be found.
    * Secondary hypertension occurs because of another disorder.
    * Drug-induced hypertension is a form of secondary hypertension caused by a response to a chemical substance or medicine.
    * Pregnancy-induced hypertension.

Chemical substances and medicines that can cause high blood pressure include:

    * Acetaminophen
    * Alcohol, amphetamines, ecstasy (MDMA and derivatives), and cocaine
    * Angiogenesis inhibitors (including tyrosine kinase inhibitors and monoclonal antibodies)
    * Antidepressants (including venlafaxine, bupropion, and desipramine)
    * Caffeine (including the caffeine in coffee and energy drinks)
    * Corticosteroids
    * Cyclosporine
    * Ephedra and many other herbal products
    * Erythropoietin
    * Estrogens (including birth control pills)
    * Immunosuppressants
    * Many over-the-counter medicines such as cough/cold and asthma medicines, particularly when the cough/cold medicine is taken with certain antidepressants,Â such asÂ tranylcypromine or tricyclics
    * Migraine medicines
    * Nasal decongestants
    * Nicotine
    * Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)
    * Testosterone and other anabolic steroids and performance-enhancing drugs
    * Yohimbe 
![Drug induced
hypertension](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18137.jpg)

Rebound hypertension occurs when blood pressure rises after you stop taking or
lower the dose of a drug (typically a medicine to lower high blood pressure).

Many other factors can also affect blood pressure, including:

    * Age
    * Condition of the kidneys, nervous system, or blood vessels
    * Genetics
    * Foods eaten, weight, and other body-related variables, including the amount of added sodium in processed foods
    * Levels of various hormones in the body
    * Volume of water in the body 

## Alternative Names

Hypertension - medication related; Drug-induced hypertension

## Images

    * ![Drug induced hypertension](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18137t.jpg)Drug induced hypertension
    * ![Untreated hypertension](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18166t.jpg)Untreated hypertension
    * ![Hypertension](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9699t.jpg)Hypertension

## References

Grossman A, Messerli FH, Grossman E. Drug induced hypertension--an
unappreciated cause of secondary hypertension. _Eur J Pharmacol_. 2015;763(Pt
A):15-22. PMID: 26096556 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26096556.

Jurca SJ, Elliott WJ. Common substances that may contribute to resistant
hypertension, and recommendations for limiting their clinical effects. _Curr
Hypertens Rep_. 2016;18(10):73. PMID: 27671491
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27671491.

Peixoto AJ. Secondary hypertension. In: Gilbert SJ, Weiner DE, eds. _National
Kidney Foundation's Primer on Kidney Diseases._ 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 66.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, Associate Professor of Medicine, Division of
Metabolism, Endocrinology & Nutrition, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![High Blood
Pressure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HighBloodPressure_thumb.jpg)High
Blood Pressure _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

