Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007696.htm    
                                Description: Blood pressure is a measurement of the force exerted against the walls of your arteries as your heart pumps blood to your body. High blood pressure (hypertension) is an increase in this force. This article    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

High blood pressure - children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007696.htm

# High blood pressure - children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Blood pressure is a measurement of the force exerted against the walls of your
arteries as your heart pumps blood to your body. High blood pressure
(hypertension) is an increase in this force. This article focuses on high
blood pressure in children, which is often a result of being overweight.

Blood pressure readings are given as two numbers. Blood pressure measurements
are written this way: 120/80. One or both of these numbers can be too high.

    * The first (top) number is the systolic blood pressure.
    * The second (bottom) number is the diastolic pressure. 

High blood pressure in children up to age 13 is measured differently than in
adults. This is because what is considered normal blood pressure changes as a
child grows. A child's blood pressure numbers are compared with the blood
pressure measurements of other children the same age, height, and gender.

Blood pressure ranges in children ages 1 to 13 years are published by a
government agency. You can also ask your health care provider. Abnormal blood
pressure readings are described as follows:

    * Elevated blood pressure
    * Stage 1 high blood pressure
    * Stage 2 high blood pressure 

Children older than age 13 follow the same guidelines for high blood pressure
as adults.

## Causes

Many things can affect blood pressure, including:

    * Hormone levels
    * The health of the nervous system, heart, and blood vessels
    * The health of the kidneys 

Most of the time, no cause of high blood pressure is found. This is called
primary (essential) hypertension.

However, certain factors can increase the risk of high blood pressure in
children:

    * Being overweight or obese
    * Family history of high blood pressure
    * Race - African Americans are at increased risk for high blood pressure
    * Having type 2 diabetes or high blood sugar
    * Having high cholesterol
    * Problems breathing during sleep, such as snoring or sleep apnea
    * Kidney disease
    * History of preterm birth or low birth weight 

In most children, high blood pressure is related to being overweight.

High blood pressure can be caused by another health problem. It can also be
caused by a medicine your child is taking. Secondary causes are more common in
infants and young children. Common causes include:

    * Thyroid problems
    * Heart problems
    * Kidney problems
    * Certain tumors
    * Sleep apnea
    * Medicines such as steroids, birth control pills, NSAIDs, and some common cold medicines 

High blood pressure will return to normal once the medicine is stopped or the
condition is treated.

The healthiest blood pressure for children is based on a child's gender,
height, and age. Your health care provider can tell you what your child's
blood pressure should be.

## Symptoms

Most children do not have any symptoms of high blood pressure. High blood
pressure is often discovered during a checkup when a provider checks your
child's blood pressure.

## Exams and Tests

In most cases, the only sign of high blood pressure is the blood pressure
measurement itself. For healthy weight children, blood pressure should be
taken every year starting at age 3. To get an accurate reading, your child's
provider will use a blood pressure cuff that fits your child properly.

If your child's blood pressure is elevated, the provider should measure blood
pressure twice and take the average of the two measurements.

Blood pressure should be taken at every visit for children who:

    * Are obese
    * Take medicine that raises blood pressure
    * Have kidney disease
    * Have problems with the blood vessels leading to the heart
    * Have diabetes 

The provider will measure your child's blood pressure many times before
diagnosing your child with high blood pressure.

The provider will ask about family history, your child's sleep history, risk
factors, and diet.

The provider will also do a physical exam to look for signs of heart disease,
damage to the eyes, and other changes in your child's body.

Other tests your child's provider may want to do include:

    * Blood and urine tests
    * Blood sugar test
    * Echocardiogram
    * Ultrasound of the kidneys
    * Sleep study to detect sleep apnea 

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to reduce high blood pressure so that your child has
a lower risk of complications. Your child's provider can tell you what your
child's blood pressure goals should be.

If your child has elevated high blood pressure, your provider will recommend
lifestyle changes to help lower your child's blood pressure.

Healthy habits can help your child not gain any more weight, lose extra
weight, and lower blood pressure. Working together as a family is the best way
to help your child lose weight. Work together to help your child:

    * Follow the DASH diet, which is low in salt with plenty of fruits and vegetables, lean meats, whole grains, and low-fat or non-fat dairy
    * Cut back on sugary drinks and foods with added sugar
    * Get 30 to 60 minutes of exercise every day
    * Limit screen time and other sedentary activities to less than 2 hours a day
    * Get plenty if sleep 

Your child's blood pressure will be checked again at 6 moths. If it remains
high, blood pressure will be checked in your child's limbs. Then blood
pressure will be rechecked at 12 months. If blood pressure remains high, then
the provider may recommend blood pressure monitoring continuously over 24 to
48 hours. This is called ambulatory blood pressure monitoring. Your child also
may need to see a heart or kidney doctor.

Other tests may also be done to look for:

    * High cholesterol level
    * Diabetes (A1C test)
    * Heart disease, using tests such as an echocardiogram or electrocardiogram
    * Kidney disease, using tests such as a basic metabolic panel and urinalysis or ultrasound of the kidneys 

The same process will occur for children with stage 1 or stage 2 high blood
pressure. However, follow-up testing and specialist referral will take place
in 1 to 2 weeks for stage 1 high blood pressure, and after 1 week for stage 2
high blood pressure.

If lifestyle changes alone don't work, or your child has other risk factors,
your child may need medicines for high blood pressure. Blood pressure
medicines used most often for children include:

    * Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors
    * Angiotensin receptor blockers
    * Beta-blockers
    * Calcium channel blockers
    * Diuretics 

Your child's provider may recommend that you monitor your child's blood
pressure at home. Home monitoring can help show if lifestyle changes or
medicines are working.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most of the time, high blood pressure in children can be controlled with
lifestyle changes and medicine, if needed.

## Possible Complications

Untreated high blood pressure in children may lead to complications in
adulthood, which may include:

    * Stroke
    * Heart attack
    * Heart failure
    * Kidney disease 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your child's provider if home monitoring shows that your child's blood
pressure is still high.

## Prevention

Your child's provider will measure your child's blood pressure at least once a
year, starting at age 3.

You can help prevent high blood pressure in your child by following lifestyle
changes designed to bring blood pressure down.

## Alternative Names

Hypertension - children; HBP - children; Pediatric hypertension

## References

Baker-Smith CM, Flinn SK, Flynn JT, et al; SUBCOMMITTEE ON SCREENING AND
MANAGEMENT OF HIGH BP IN CHILDREN. Diagnosis, evaluation, and management of
high blood pressure in children and adolescents. _Pediatrics_. 2018;142(3).
PMID: 30126937 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30126937.

Coleman DM, Eliason JL, Stanley JC. Renovascular and aortic developmental
disorders. In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA, eds. _Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and
Endovascular Therapy_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 130.

Hanevold CD, Flynn JT. Hypertension in children: diagnosis and treatment. In:
Bakris GL, Sorrentino MJ, eds. _Hypertension: A Companion to Braunwald's Heart
Disease_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2018:chap 17.

Lande MB. Systemic hypertension. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 445.

## Review Date 8/5/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![High Blood
Pressure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HighBloodPressure_thumb.jpg)High
Blood Pressure _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

