Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007484.htm    
                                Description: Treating high blood pressure will help prevent problems such as heart disease, stroke, loss of eyesight, chronic kidney disease, and other blood vessel diseases.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

High blood pressure medicines

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007484.htm

# High blood pressure medicines

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Treating high blood pressure will help prevent problems such as heart disease,
stroke, loss of eyesight, chronic kidney disease, and other blood vessel
diseases.

You may need to take medicines to lower your blood pressure if lifestyle
changes are not enough to bring your blood pressure to the target level.

**WHEN ARE MEDICINES FOR HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE USED**

Most of the time, your health care provider will try lifestyle changes first
and check your BP two or more times.

If your blood pressure is 120/80 to 129/80 mm Hg, you have elevated blood
pressure.

    * Your provider will recommend lifestyle changes to bring your blood pressure down to a normal range.
    * Medicines are rarely used at this stage. 

If your blood pressure is equal to or higher than 130/80 but lower than 140/90
mm Hg, you have Stage 1 high blood pressure. When thinking about the best
treatment, you and your provider must consider:

    * If you have no other diseases or risk factors, your provider may recommend lifestyle changes and repeat the measurements after a few months.
    * If your blood pressure remains equal to or higher than 130/80 but lower than 140/90 mm Hg, your provider may recommend medicines to treat high blood pressure.
    * If you have other diseases or risk factors, your provider may be more likely to recommend medicines at the same time as lifestyle changes. 

If your blood pressure is equal to or higher than 140/90 mm Hg, you have Stage
2 high blood pressure. Your provider will most likely recommend that you take
medicines and recommend lifestyle changes.

Before making a final diagnosis of either elevated blood pressure or high
blood pressure, your provider should ask you to have your blood pressure
measured at home, at your pharmacy, or somewhere else besides their office or
a hospital.

If you have a higher risk for heart disease, diabetes, heart problems, or a
history of a stroke, medicines may be started at lower blood pressure reading.
The most commonly used blood pressure targets for people with these medical
problems are below 130/80.

 **MEDICINES FOR HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE**

Most of the time, only a single drug will be used at first. Two drugs may be
started if you have stage 2 high blood pressure.

Several types of medicine are used to treat high blood pressure. Your provider
will decide which type of medicine is right for you. You may need to take more
than one type.

Each type of blood pressure medicine listed below comes in different brand and
generic names.

One or more of these blood pressure medicines are often used to treat high
blood pressure:

    *  **Diuretics** are also called water pills. They help your kidneys remove some salt (sodium) from your body. As a result, your blood vessels do not have to hold as much fluid and your blood pressure goes down.
    *  **Beta-blockers** make the heart beat at a slower rate and with less force.
    *  **Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors** (also called **ACE inhibitors** ) relax your blood vessels, which lowers your blood pressure.
    *  **Angiotensin II receptor** blockers (also called **ARBs** ) work in about the same way as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors.
    *  **Calcium channel blockers** relax blood vessels by reducing calcium entering cells. 

Blood pressure medicines that are not used as often include:

    *  **Alpha-blockers** help relax your blood vessels, which lowers your blood pressure.
    *  **Centrally acting drugs** signal your brain and nervous system to relax your blood vessels.
    *  **Vasodilators** signal the muscles in the walls of blood vessels to relax.
    *  **Renin inhibitors** , a newer type of medicine for treating high blood pressure, act by reducing the amount of angiotensin precursors thereby relaxing your blood vessels. 

**SIDE EFFECTS OF BLOOD PRESSURE MEDICINES**

Most blood pressure medicines are easy to take, but all medicines have side
effects. Most of these are mild and may go away over time.

Some common side effects of high blood pressure medicines include:

    * Cough
    * Diarrhea or constipation
    * Dizziness or lightheadedness
    * Erection problems
    * Feeling nervous
    * Feeling tired, weak, drowsy, or a lack of energy
    * Headache
    * Nausea or vomiting
    * Skin rash
    * Weight loss or gain without trying 

Tell your provider as soon as possible if you have side effects or the side
effects are causing you problems. Most of the time, making changes to the dose
of medicine or when you take it can help reduce side effects.

Never change the dose or stop taking a medicine on your own. Always talk to
your provider first.

 **OTHER TIPS**

Taking more than one medicine may change how your body absorbs or uses a drug.
Vitamins or supplements, different foods, or alcohol may also change how a
drug acts in your body.

Always ask your provider whether you need to avoid any foods, drinks, vitamins
or supplements, or any other medicines while you are taking blood pressure
medicine.

## Alternative Names

Hypertension - medicines

## References

Victor RG. Arterial hypertension. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 67.

Victor RG, Libby P. Systemic hypertension: management. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2019:chap 46.

Whelton PK, Carey RM, Aronow WS, et al. 2017
ACC/AHA/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/AGS/APhA/ASH/ASPC/NMA/PCNA guideline for the prevention,
detection, evaluation, and management of high blood pressure in adults: a
report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task
Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol_.
2018;71(19):e127-e248. PMID: 29146535 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29146535.

Williams B, Borkum M. Pharmacologic treatment of hypertension. In: Feehally J,
Floege J, Tonelli M, Johnson RJ, eds. _Comprehensive Clinical Nephrology_. 6th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 36.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood Pressure
Medicines](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodPressureMedications_thumb.jpg)Blood
Pressure Medicines _Read more_

![High Blood
Pressure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HighBloodPressure_thumb.jpg)High
Blood Pressure _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

