Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000999.htm    
                                Description: High blood pressure can damage blood vessels in the retina. The retina is the layer of tissue at the back part of the eye. It changes light and images that enter the eye into nerve signals that are sent    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

High blood pressure and eye disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000999.htm

# High blood pressure and eye disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

High blood pressure can damage blood vessels in the retina. The retina is the
layer of tissue at the back part of the eye. It changes light and images that
enter the eye into nerve signals that are sent to the brain.

## Causes

The higher the blood pressure and the longer it has been high, the more severe
the damage is likely to be.

You have a higher risk of damage and vision loss when you also have diabetes,
high cholesterol level, or you smoke.

Rarely, very high blood pressure develop suddenly. However, when it does, it
can cause severe changes in the eye.

Other problems with the retina are also more likely, such as:

    * Damage to the nerves in the eye due to poor blood flow
    * Blockage of the arteries that supply blood to the retina
    * Blockage of the veins that carry blood away from the retina 

## Symptoms

Most people with hypertensive retinopathy do not have symptoms until late in
the disease.

Symptoms may include:

    * Double vision, dim vision, or vision loss
    * Headaches

Sudden symptoms are a medical emergency. It often means that the blood
pressure is very high.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will use an ophthalmoscope to look for narrowing of
the blood vessels and signs that fluid has leaked from blood vessels.

The degree of damage to the retina (retinopathy) is graded on a scale of 1 to
4:

    * Grade 1: You may not have symptoms.
    * Grades 2 to 3: There are a number of changes in the blood vessels, leaking from blood vessels, and swelling in other parts of the retina.
    * Grade 4: You will have swelling of the optic nerve and of the visual center of the retina (macula). This swelling can cause decreased vision. 

You may need a special test to examine the blood vessels.

## Treatment

The only treatment for hypertensive retinopathy is to control high blood
pressure.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People with grade 4 (severe retinopathy) often have heart and kidney problems
due to high blood pressure. They are also at higher risk for stroke.

In most cases, the retina will heal if the blood pressure is controlled.
However, some people with grade 4 retinopathy will have lasting damage to the
optic nerve or macula.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Get emergency treatment if you have high blood pressure with vision changes or
headaches.

## Alternative Names

Hypertensive retinopathy

## Images

    * ![Hypertensive retinopathy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19530t.jpg)Hypertensive retinopathy
    * ![Retina](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8903t.jpg)Retina

## References

Levy PD, Brody A. Hypertension. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 74.

Rachitskaya AV. Hypertensive retinopathy. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds.
_Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 6.18.

Yim-lui Cheung C, Wong TY. Hypertension. In: Schachat AP, Sadda SVR, Hinton
DR, Wilkinson CP, Wiedemann P, eds. _Ryan's Retina_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 52.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![High Blood
Pressure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HighBloodPressure_thumb.jpg)High
Blood Pressure _Read more_

![Retinal
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RetinalDisorders_thumb.jpg)Retinal
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

