Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000204.htm    
                                Description: Renovascular hypertension is high blood pressure due to narrowing of the arteries that carry blood to the kidneys. This condition is also called renal artery stenosis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Renovascular hypertension

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000204.htm

# Renovascular hypertension

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Renovascular hypertension is high blood pressure due to narrowing of the
arteries that carry blood to the kidneys. This condition is also called renal
artery stenosis.

## Causes

Renal artery stenosis is a narrowing or blockage of the arteries that supply
blood to the kidneys.

The most common cause of renal artery stenosis is aÂ blockage in the arteries
due to high cholesterol. This problem occurs when a sticky, fatty substance
called plaque builds up on the inner lining of the arteries, causing a
condition known as atherosclerosis.

When the arteries that carry blood to your kidneys become narrow, less blood
flows to the kidneys. The kidneys mistakenly respond as if your blood pressure
is low. As a result, they release hormones that tell the body to hold on to
more salt and water. This causes your blood pressure to rise.

Risk factors for atherosclerosis:

    * High blood pressure
    * Smoking
    * Diabetes
    * High cholesterol
    * Heavy alcohol use
    * Cocaine abuse
    * Increasing age 

Fibromuscular dysplasia is another cause of renal artery stenosis. It is often
seen in women under age 50. It tends to run in families. The condition is
caused by abnormal growth of cells in the walls of the arteries leading to the
kidneys. This also leads to narrowing or blockage of these arteries.

## Symptoms

People with renovascular hypertension may have a history of very high blood
pressure that is hard to bring down with medicines.

Symptoms of renovascular hypertension include:

    * High blood pressure at a young age
    * High blood pressure that suddenly gets worse or is hard to control
    * Kidneys that are not working well (this can start suddenly)
    * Narrowing of other arteries in the body, such as to the legs, the brain, the eyes and elsewhere
    * Sudden buildup of fluid in the air sacs of the lungs (pulmonary edema)

If you have a dangerous form of high blood pressure called malignant
hypertension, symptomsÂ canÂ include:

    * Bad headache
    * Nausea or vomiting
    * Confusion
    * Changes in vision
    * Nosebleeds

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider may hear a "whooshing" noise, called a bruit, when
placing a stethoscope over your belly area.

The following blood tests may be done:

    * Cholesterol levels
    * Renin and aldosterone levels
    * BUN - blood test
    * Creatinine - blood test
    * Potassium - blood test
    * Creatinine clearance

Imaging tests may be done to see if the kidney arteries have narrowed. They
include:

    * Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition renography
    * Doppler ultrasound of the renal arteries
    * Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA)
    * Renal artery angiography

## Treatment

High blood pressure caused by narrowing of the arteries that lead to the
kidneys is often hard to control.

One or more medicines are needed to help control blood pressure. There are
many types available.

    * Everyone responds to medicine differently. Your blood pressure should be checked often. The amount and type of medicine you take may need to be changed from time to time.
    * Ask your provider what blood pressure reading is right for you.
    * Take all medicines the way your provider prescribed them.

Have your cholesterol levels checked, and treated ifÂ it is needed. Your
provider will help determine the right cholesterol levels for you based on
your heart disease risk and other health conditions.

Lifestyle changes are important:

    * Eat a heart-healthy diet.
    * Exercise regularly, at least 30 minutes a day (check with your doctor before starting).
    * If you smoke, quit. Find a program that will help you stop.
    * Limit how much alcohol you drink: 1 drink a day for women, 2 a day for men.
    * Limit the amount of sodium (salt) you eat. Aim for less than 1,500 mg per day. Check with your doctor about how much potassium you should be eating.
    * Reduce stress. Try to avoid things that cause stress for you. You can also try meditation or yoga.
    * Stay at a healthy body weight. Find a weight-loss program to help you, if you need it.

Further treatment depends on what causes the narrowing of the kidney arteries.
Your provider may recommend a procedure called angioplasty with stenting.

These procedures may be an option if you have:

    * Severe narrowing of the renal artery
    * Blood pressure that cannot be controlled with medicines
    * Kidneys that are not working well and are becoming worse

However, the decision about which people should have these procedures is
complex, and depends on many of the factors listed above.

## Possible Complications

If your blood pressure is not well controlled, you are at risk for the
following complications:

    * Aortic aneurysm
    * Heart attack
    * Heart failure
    * Chronic kidney disease
    * Stroke
    * Vision problems
    * Poor blood supply to the legs

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you think you have high blood pressure.

Call your provider if you have renovascular hypertension and symptoms get
worse or do not improve with treatment. Also call if new symptoms develop.

## Prevention

Preventing atherosclerosis may prevent renal artery stenosis. Taking the
following steps can help:

    * Lose weight if you are overweight.
    * Ask your provider about your smoking and alcohol use.
    * Control your blood sugar if you have diabetes.
    * Make sure your provider is monitoring your blood cholesterol levels.
    * Eat a heart-healthy diet.
    * Get regular exercise.

## Alternative Names

Renal hypertension; Hypertension - renovascular; Renal artery occlusion;
Stenosis - renal artery; Renal artery stenosis; High blood pressure -
renovascular

## Images

    * ![Hypertensive kidney](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8818t.jpg)Hypertensive kidney
    * ![Renal arteries](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9818t.jpg)Renal arteries

## References

Siu AL, US Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for high blood pressure
in adults: US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann
Intern Med_. 2015;163(10):778-786. PMID: 26458123
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26458123.

Textor SC. Renovascular hypertension and ischemic nephropathy. In: Skorecki K,
Chertow GM, Marsden PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The
Kidney_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 48.

Victor RG. Arterial hypertension. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 67.

Victor RG. Systemic hypertension: mechanisms and diagnosis. In: Zipes DP,
Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 46.

Victor RG, Libby P. Systemic hypertension: management. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 47.

## Review Date 6/10/2018

Updated by: Deepak Sudheendra, MD, FSIR, RPVI, Assistant Professor of
Interventional Radiology & Surgery at the University of Pennsylvania Perelman
School of Medicine, with an expertise in Vascular Interventional Radiology &
Surgical Critical Care, Philadelphia, PA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Chronic Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChronicKidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Chronic
Kidney Disease _Read more_

![High Blood
Pressure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HighBloodPressure_thumb.jpg)High
Blood Pressure _Read more_

![Peripheral Arterial
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeripheralArterialDisease_thumb.jpg)Peripheral
Arterial Disease _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

