Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003704.htm    
                                Description: The aldosterone blood test measures the level of the hormone aldosterone in blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Aldosterone blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003704.htm

# Aldosterone blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The aldosterone blood test measures the level of the hormone aldosterone in
blood.

Aldosterone can also be measured using a urine test.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your health care provider may ask you to stop taking certain medicines a few
days before the test so that they don't affect the test results. Be sure to
tell your provider about all the medicines you take. These include:

    * High blood pressure medicines
    * Heart medicines
    * Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)
    * Antacid and ulcer medicines
    * Water pills (diuretics)

Do not stop taking any medicine before talking to your doctor. Your provider
may recommend that you eat no more than 3 grams of salt (sodium) per day for
at least 2 weeks before the test.

Or, your provider will recommend that you eat your usual amount of salt and
also test the amount of sodium in your urine.

At other times, the aldosterone blood test is done right before and after you
receive a salt solution (saline) through the vein (IV) for 2 hours. Be aware
that other factors can affect aldosterone measurements, including:

    * Pregnancy
    * High- or low-sodium diet
    * High- or low-potassium diet
    * Strenuous exercise
    * Stress

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging sensation. Afterward, there may be some
throbbing or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is ordered for the following conditions:

    * Certain fluid and electrolyte disorders, most often low or high blood sodium or low potassiumÂ 
    * Hard to control blood pressure
    * Low blood pressure upon standing (orthostatic hypotension) 

Aldosterone is a hormone released by the adrenal glands. It helps the body
regulate blood pressure. Aldosterone increases the reabsorption of sodium and
water and the release of potassium in the kidneys. This action raises blood
pressure.

Aldosterone blood test is often combined with other tests, such as the renin
hormone test, to diagnose over- or under-production of aldosterone.

## Normal Results

Normal levels vary:

    * Between children, teens, and adults
    * Depending on whether you were standing, sitting, or lying down when the blood was drawn 

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A higher than normal level of aldosterone may be due to:

    * Bartter syndrome (group of rare conditions that affect the kidneys)
    * Adrenal glands release too much aldosterone hormone (primary hyperaldosteronism \- usually due to a benign nodule in the adrenal gland)
    * Very low-sodium diet 
    * Taking blood pressure medicines called mineralocorticoid antagonists

A lower than normal level of aldosterone may be due to:

    * Adrenal gland disorders, including not releasing enough aldosterone, and a condition called primary adrenal insufficiency (Addison disease)
    * Very high-sodium diet 

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one patient to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Aldosterone - serum; Addison disease - serum aldosterone; Primary
hyperaldosteronism - serum aldosterone; Bartter syndrome - serum aldosterone

## References

Carey RM, Padia SH. Primary mineralocorticoid excess disorders and
hypertension. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds.
_Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 108.

Guber HA, Farag AF. Evaluation of endocrine function. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 24.

## Review Date 7/16/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AdrenalGlandNew_thumb.jpg)Adrenal Gland
Disorders _Read more_

![Equilibrio
hidroelectrolÃ­tico](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FluidandElectrolyteBalance_thumb.jpg)Fluid
and Electrolyte Balance _Read more_

![High Blood
Pressure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HighBloodPressure_thumb.jpg)High
Blood Pressure _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

