Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000087.htm    
                                Description: Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors are medicines. They treat heart, blood vessel, and kidney problems.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

ACE inhibitors

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000087.htm

# ACE inhibitors

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors are medicines. They treat
heart, blood vessel, and kidney problems.

## How ACE inhibitors help

ACE inhibitors are used to treat heart disease. These medicines make your
heart work less hard by lowering your blood pressure. This keeps some kinds of
heart disease from getting worse. Most people who have heart failure take
these medicines.

These medicines treat high blood pressure, strokes, or heart attacks. They may
help lower your risk for stroke or heart attack.

They are also used to treat diabetes and kidney problems. This can help keep
your kidneys from getting worse. If you have these problems, ask your health
care provider if you should be taking these medicines.

## Types of ACE inhibitors

There are many different names and brands of ACE inhibitors. Most work as well
as another. Side effects may be different for different ones.

## Taking Your ACE inhibitors

ACE inhibitors are pills that you take by mouth. Take all of your medicines as
your provider told you to. Follow-up with your provider regularly. Your
provider will check your blood pressure and do blood tests to make sure the
medicines are working properly. Your provider may change your dose from time
to time. In addition:

    * Try to take your medicines at the same time each day.
    * DO NOT stop taking your medicines without talking to your provider first.
    * Plan ahead so that you do not run out of medicine. Make sure you have enough with you when you travel.
    * Before taking ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) or aspirin, talk to your provider.
    * Tell your provider what other medicines you are taking, including anything you bought without a prescription, diuretics (water pills), potassium pills, or herbal or dietary supplements.
    * DO NOT take ACE inhibitors if you are planning to become pregnant, are pregnant, or are breastfeeding. Call your provider if you become pregnant when you are taking these medicines.

## Side effects

Side effects from ACE inhibitors are rare.

You may have a dry cough. This may go away after a while. It also may start
after you have been taking the medicine for some time. Tell your provider if
you develop a cough. Sometimes reducing your dose helps. But sometimes, your
provider will switch you to a different medicine. DO NOT lower your dose
without talking with your provider first.

You may feel dizzy or lightheaded when you start taking these medicines, or if
your provider increases your dose. Standing up slowly from a chair or your bed
may help. If you have a fainting spell, call your provider right away.

Other side effects include:

    * Headache
    * Fatigue
    * Loss of appetite
    * Upset stomach
    * Diarrhea
    * Numbness
    * Fever
    * Skin rashes or blisters
    * Joint pain

If your tongue or lips swell, call your provider right away, or go to the
emergency room. You may be having a serious allergic reaction to the medicine.
This is very rare.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you are having any of the side effects listed above.
Also call your provider if you are having any other unusual symptoms.

## Alternative Names

Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors

## References

Mann DL. Management of heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2019:chap 25.

Whelton PK, Carey RM, Aronow WS, et al. 2017
ACC/AHA/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/AGS/APhA/ASH/ASPC/NMA/PCNA guideline for the prevention,
detection, evaluation, and management of high blood pressure in adults: a
report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task
Force on clinical practice guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol_.
2018;71(19):e127-e248. PMID: 29146535 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29146535.

Yancy CW, Jessup M, Bozkurt B, et al. 2013 ACCF/AHA guideline for the
management of heart failure: executive summary: a report of the American
College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on
practice guidelines. _Circulation_. 2013;128(16):1810-1852. PMID: 23741057
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23741057.

## Read More

    * Diabetes and kidney disease
    * Heart failure - overview
    * High blood pressure - adults
    * Type 2 diabetes

## Patient Instructions

    * Angina - discharge
    * Angioplasty and stent - heart - discharge 
    * Aspirin and heart disease
    * Being active when you have heart disease
    * Cardiac catheterization - discharge 
    * Controlling your high blood pressure
    * Diabetes and exercise 
    * Diabetes - keeping active 
    * Diabetes - preventing heart attack and stroke
    * Diabetes - taking care of your feet
    * Diabetes tests and checkups
    * Diabetes - when you are sick
    * Heart attack - discharge
    * Heart failure - discharge
    * Heart failure - what to ask your doctor 
    * High blood pressure - what to ask your doctor 
    * Low blood sugar - self-care
    * Managing your blood sugar
    * Stroke - discharge 
    * Type 2 diabetes - what to ask your doctor

## Review Date 7/25/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Blood Pressure Medicines
    * Chronic Kidney Disease
    * High Blood Pressure
    * Kidney Diseases

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

