Link: https://medlineplus.gov/chronicbronchitis.html    
                                Description: Bronchitis is an inflammation of the airways that carry air to your lungs. Chronic bronchitis is a long-term condition. Discover symptoms and treatment.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Chronic Bronchitis

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/chronicbronchitis.html

#  Chronic Bronchitis

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Diagnosis and Tests

### Learn More

  * Living With
  * Related Issues

### See, Play and Learn

  * No links available

### Research

  * Statistics and Research
  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Reference Desk
  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Children
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is chronic bronchitis?

Chronic bronchitis is a type of COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease).
COPD is a group of lung diseases that make it hard to breathe and get worse
over time. The other main type of COPD is emphysema. Most people with COPD
have both emphysema and chronic bronchitis, but how severe each type is can be
different from person to person.

Chronic bronchitis is inflammation (swelling) and irritation of the bronchial
tubes. These tubes are the airways that carry air to and from the air sacs in
your lungs. The irritation of the tubes causes mucus to build up. This mucus
and the swelling of the tubes make it harder for your lungs to move oxygen in
and carbon dioxide out of your body.

### What causes chronic bronchitis?

The cause of chronic bronchitis is usually long-term exposure to irritants
that damage your lungs and airways. In the United States, cigarette smoke is
the main cause. Pipe, cigar, and other types of tobacco smoke can also cause
chronic bronchitis, especially if you inhale them.

Exposure to other inhaled irritants can contribute to chronic bronchitis.
These include secondhand smoke, air pollution, and chemical fumes or dusts
from the environment or workplace.

Rarely, a genetic condition called alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency can play a
role in causing chronic bronchitis.

### Who is at risk for chronic bronchitis?

The risk factors for chronic bronchitis include

  * **Smoking.** This the main risk factor. Up to 75 percent of people who have chronic bronchitis smoke or used to smoke.
  * **Long-term exposure to other lung irritants** , such as secondhand smoke, air pollution, and chemical fumes and dusts from the environment or workplace.
  * **Age.** Most people who have chronic bronchitis are at least 40 years old when their symptoms begin.
  * **Genetics.** This includes alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency, which is a genetic condition. Also, smokers who get chronic bronchitis are more likely to get it if they have a family history of COPD.

### What are the symptoms of chronic bronchitis?

At first, you may have no symptoms or only mild symptoms. As the disease gets
worse, your symptoms usually become more severe. They can include

  * Frequent coughing or a cough that produces a lot mucus
  * Wheezing
  * A whistling or squeaky sound when you breathe
  * Shortness of breath, especially with physical activity
  * Tightness in your chest

Some people with chronic bronchitis get frequent respiratory infections such
as colds and the flu. In severe cases, chronic bronchitis can cause weight
loss, weakness in your lower muscles, and swelling in your ankles, feet, or
legs.

### How is chronic bronchitis diagnosed?

To make a diagnosis, your health care provider

  * Will ask about your medical history and family history
  * Will ask about your symptoms
  * May do lab tests, such as lung function tests, a chest x-ray or CT scan, and blood tests

### What are the treatments for chronic bronchitis?

There is no cure for chronic bronchitis. However, treatments can help with
symptoms, slow the progress of the disease, and improve your ability to stay
active. There are also treatments to prevent or treat complications of the
disease. Treatments include

  * **Lifestyle changes** , such as 
    * Quitting smoking if you are a smoker. This is the most important step you can take to treat chronic bronchitis.
    * Avoiding secondhand smoke and places where you might breathe in other lung irritants
    * Ask your health care provider for an eating plan that will meet your nutritional needs. Also ask about how much physical activity you can do. Physical activity can strengthen the muscles that help you breathe and improve your overall wellness.
  * **Medicines** , such as 
    * Bronchodilators, which relax the muscles around your airways. This helps open your airways and makes breathing easier. Most bronchodilators are taken through an inhaler. In more severe cases, the inhaler may also contain steroids to reduce inflammation.
    * Vaccines for the flu and pneumococcal pneumonia, since people with chronic bronchitis are at higher risk for serious problems from these diseases.
    * Antibiotics if you get a bacterial or viral lung infection
  * **Oxygen therapy** , if you have severe chronic bronchitis and low levels of oxygen in your blood. Oxygen therapy can help you breathe better. You may need extra oxygen all the time or only at certain times.
  * **Pulmonary rehabilitation** , which is a program that helps improve the well-being of people who have chronic breathing problems. It may include
    * An exercise program
    * Disease management training
    * Nutritional counseling
    * Psychological counseling
  * **A lung transplant** , as a last resort for people who have severe symptoms that have not gotten better with medicines

If you have chronic bronchitis, it's important to know when and where to get
help for your symptoms. You should get emergency care if you have severe
symptoms, such as trouble catching your breath or talking. Call your health
care provider if your symptoms are getting worse or if you have signs of an
infection, such as a fever.

### Can chronic bronchitis be prevented?

Since smoking causes most cases of chronic bronchitis, the best way to prevent
it is to not smoke. It's also important to try to avoid lung irritants such as
secondhand smoke, air pollution, chemical fumes, and dusts.

NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Start Here

  * Bronchitis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute) Also in Spanish
  * Chronic Bronchitis (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Blood Oxygen Level ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Chest X-Ray ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute) Also in Spanish
  * Cough (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
  * Lung Function Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Spirometry (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)

## Living With

  * Pulmonary Rehabilitation: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

  * Humidifiers: Air Moisture Eases Skin, Breathing Symptoms (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Statistics and Research

  * FastStats: Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) Includes: Chronic Bronchitis and Emphysema (National Center for Health Statistics)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Bronchitis, Chronic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Sputum and blood transcriptomics characterisation of the inhaled PDE4 inhibitor CHF6001...
  * Article: Chronic bronchitis without airflow obstruction, asthma and rhinitis are differently associated...
  * Article: Total flavonoids from sea buckthorn ameliorates lipopolysaccharide/cigarette smoke-induced airway inflammation.
  * Chronic Bronchitis -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

  * Bronchi, Bronchial Tree, & Lungs ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
  * How the Lungs Work ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Find an Expert

  * American Lung Association
  * National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

  * Bronchitis (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)

## Patient Handouts

  * How to breathe when you are short of breath (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Traveling with breathing problems (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Using oxygen at home (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Chronic Bronchitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChronicBronchitis.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Blood gases
  * Chest x-ray
  * How to breathe when you are short of breath
  * Oxygen safety
  * Traveling with breathing problems
  * Using oxygen at home
  * Using oxygen at home - what to ask your doctor

## Related Health Topics

  * Acute Bronchitis
  * Asthma
  * COPD
  * Emphysema
  * Oxygen Therapy
  * Pulmonary Rehabilitation

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Chronic Bronchitis is the
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Chronic
Bronchitis_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 February 2020 Topic last reviewed: 3 January 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

