Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003698.htm    
                                Description: The renin test measures the level of renin in blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Renin blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003698.htm

# Renin blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The renin test measures the level of renin in blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Certain medicines may affect the results of this test. Your health care
provider will tell you if you need to stop taking any medicines. DO NOT stop
any medicine before talking to your provider.

Medicines that can affect renin measurements include:

    * Birth control pills.
    * Blood pressure drugs.
    * Medicines that dilate blood vessels (vasodilators). These are usually used to treat high blood pressure or heart failure.
    * Water pills (diuretics). 

Your provider may instruct you to limit your sodium intake before the test.

Be aware that renin level can be affected by pregnancy, as well as the time of
day and the body position when blood is drawn.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging sensation. Afterward, there may be some
throbbing or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

Renin is a protein (enzyme) released by special kidney cells when you have a
decreased salt (sodium) level or low blood volume. Most often, the renin blood
test is done at the same time as an aldosterone blood test to calculate the
renin to aldosterone level.

If you have high blood pressure, your doctor may order a renin and aldosterone
test to help determine the cause of your elevated blood pressure. Test results
can help guide your doctor in choosing the correct treatment.

## Normal Results

For normal sodium diet, normal value range is 0.6 to 4.3 ng/mL/hour (0.6 to
4.3 Âµg/L/hour). For low sodium diet, normal value range is 2.9 to 24
ng/mL/hour (2.9 to 24 Âµg/L/hour).

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your doctor
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A high level of renin may be due to:

    * Adrenal glands that do not make enough hormones (Addison disease or other adrenal gland insufficiency)
    * Bleeding (hemorrhage)
    * Heart failure
    * High blood pressure caused by narrowing of the kidney arteries (renovascular hypertension)
    * Liver scarring and poor liver function (cirrhosis)
    * Loss of body fluid (dehydration)
    * Kidney damage that creates nephrotic syndrome
    * Kidney tumors that produce renin
    * Sudden and very high blood pressure (malignant hypertension) 

A low level of renin may be due to:

    * Adrenal glands that release too much aldosterone hormone (hyperaldosteronism)
    * High blood pressure that is salt-sensitive
    * Treatment with antidiuretic hormone (ADH)
    * Treatment with steroid medicines that cause the body to retain salt 

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one patient to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Plasma renin activity; Random plasma renin; PRA

## Images

    * ![Kidney - blood and urine flow](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1704t.jpg)Kidney - blood and urine flow
    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Guber HA, Farag AF. Evaluation of endocrine function. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 24.

Weiner ID, Wingo CS. Endocrine causes of hypertension: aldosterone. In:
Feehally J, Floege J, Tonelli M, Johnson RJ, eds. _Comprehensive Clinical
Nephrology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 38.

## Review Date 7/7/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![High Blood
Pressure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HighBloodPressure_thumb.jpg)High
Blood Pressure _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

