Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007329.htm    
                                Description: High blood pressure (hypertension) is an increase in the force of blood against the arteries in the body. This article focuses on high blood pressure in infants.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

High blood pressure in infants

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007329.htm

# High blood pressure in infants

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

High blood pressure (hypertension) is an increase in the force of blood
against the arteries in the body. This article focuses on high blood pressure
in infants.

## Causes

Blood pressure measures how hard the heart is working, and how healthy the
arteries are. There are two numbers in each blood pressure measurement:

    * The first (top) number is the systolic blood pressure, which measures the force of blood released when the heart beats.
    * The second (bottom) number is the diastolic pressure, which measures the pressure in the arteries when the heart is at rest. 

Blood pressure measurements are written this way: 120/80. One or both of these
numbers can be too high.

Several factors affect blood pressure, including:

    * Hormones
    * The health of the heart and blood vessels
    * The health of the kidneys 

High blood pressure in infants may be due to kidney or heart disease that is
present at birth (congenital). Common examples include:

    * Coarctation of the aorta (narrowing of the large blood vessel of the heart called the aorta)
    * Patent ductus arteriosus (blood vessel between the aorta and pulmonary artery that should close after birth, but remains open)
    * Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (lung condition that affects newborn babies who were either put on a breathing machine after birth or were born very early)
    * Kidney disease involving the kidney tissue
    * Renal artery stenosis (narrowing of the major blood vessel of the kidney) 

In newborn babies, high blood pressure is often caused by a blood clot in a
kidney blood vessel, a complication of having an umbilical artery catheter.

![Umbilical catheter](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/21732.jpg)

Other causes of high blood pressure in infants may include:

    * Certain medicines
    * Exposure to illegal drugs such as cocaine
    * Certain tumors
    * Inherited conditions (problems that run in families)
    * Thyroid problems 

Blood pressure rises as the baby grows. The average blood pressure in a
newborn is 64/41. The average blood pressure in a child 1 month through 2
years old is 95/58. It is normal for these numbers to vary.

## Symptoms

Most babies with high blood pressure will not have symptoms. Instead, symptoms
may be related to the condition causing the high blood pressure. These
symptoms may include:

    * Bluish skin
    * Failure to grow and gain weight
    * Frequent urinary tract infections
    * Pale skin (pallor)
    * Rapid breathing

Symptoms that may appear if the baby has very high blood pressure include:

    * Irritability
    * Seizures
    * Trouble breathing
    * Vomiting

## Exams and Tests

In most cases, the only sign of high blood pressure is the blood pressure
measurement itself.

Signs of very high blood pressure include:

    * Heart failure
    * Kidney failure
    * Rapid pulse 

Blood pressure in infants is measured with an automatic device.

If coarctation of the aorta is the cause, there may be decreased pulses or
blood pressure in the legs. A click may be heard if a bicuspid aortic valve
occurs with the coarctation.

![Coarctation of the
aorta](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18128.jpg)

Other tests in infants with high blood pressure will try to find the cause of
the problem. Such tests may include:

    * Laboratory tests, including blood and urine tests
    * X-rays of the chest or abdomen
    * Ultrasounds, including an ultrasound of the working heart (echocardiogram) and of the kidneys
    * MRI of the blood vessels
    * A special type of x-ray that uses a dye to look at blood vessels (angiography) 

## Treatment

The treatment depends on the cause of high blood pressure in the infant.
Treatment can include:

    * Dialysis to treat kidney failure
    * Medicines to lower blood pressure or help the heart pump better
    * Surgery (including transplantation surgery or repair of the coarctation) 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well the baby does depends on the cause of high blood pressure and other
factors such as:

    * Other health problems in the baby
    * Whether damage (such as kidney damage) has occurred as a result of the high blood pressure

## Possible Complications

Untreated, high blood pressure may lead to:

    * Heart or kidney failure
    * Organ damage
    * Seizures

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if your baby:

    * Fails to grow and gain weight
    * Has bluish skin
    * Has frequent urinary tract infections
    * Seems irritable
    * Tires easily 

Take your baby to the emergency department if your baby:

    * Has seizures
    * Is not responding
    * Is vomiting constantly 

## Prevention

Some causes of high blood pressure run in families. Talk to your provider
before you get pregnant if you have a family history of:

    * Congenital heart disease
    * High blood pressure
    * Kidney disease 

Also talk to your provider before becoming pregnant if you take medicine for a
health problem. Exposure to certain drugs in the womb may increase your baby's
risk of developing problems that can lead to high blood pressure.

## Alternative Names

Hypertension - infants

## Images

    * ![Umbilical catheter](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/21732t.jpg)Umbilical catheter
    * ![Coarctation of the aorta](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18128t.jpg)Coarctation of the aorta

## References

Flynn JT. Neonatal hypertension. In: Gleason CA, Juul SE, eds. _Avery's
Diseases of the Newborn_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 93.

Lande MB. Systemic hypertension. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 445.

## Review Date 5/20/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![High Blood
Pressure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HighBloodPressure_thumb.jpg)High
Blood Pressure _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

