Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000468.htm    
                                Description: Blood pressure is a measurement of the force exerted against the walls of your arteries as your heart pumps blood to your body. Hypertension is the term used to describe high blood pressure.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

High blood pressure - adults

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000468.htm

# High blood pressure - adults

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Blood pressure is a measurement of the force exerted against the walls of your
arteries as your heart pumps blood to your body. Hypertension is the term used
to describe high blood pressure.

Untreated high blood pressure can lead to many medical problems. These include
heart disease, stroke, kidney failure, eye problems, and other health issues.

Blood pressure readings are given as two numbers. The top number is called
systolic blood pressure. The bottom number is called diastolic blood pressure.
For example, 120 over 80 (written as 120/80 mm Hg).

One or both of these numbers can be too high. (Note: These numbers apply to
people who are not taking medicines for blood pressure and who are not ill.)

    * Normal blood pressure is when your blood pressure is lower than 120/80 mm Hg most of the time.
    * High blood pressure (hypertension) is when one or both of your blood pressure readings are higher than 130/80 mm Hg most of the time.
    * If the top blood pressure number is between 120 and 130 mm Hg, and the bottom blood pressure number is less than 80 mm Hg, it is called elevated blood pressure. 

If you have heart or kidney problems, or you had a stroke, your doctor may
want your blood pressure to be even lower than that of people who do not have
these conditions.

## Causes

Many factors can affect blood pressure, including:

    * The amount of water and salt you have in your body
    * The condition of your kidneys, nervous system, or blood vessels
    * Your hormone levels 

You are more likely to be told your blood pressure is too high as you get
older. This is because your blood vessels become stiffer as you age. When that
happens, your blood pressure goes up. High blood pressure increases your
chance of having a stroke, heart attack, heart failure, kidney disease, or
early death.

You have a higher risk of high blood pressure if you:

    * Are African American
    * Are obese
    * Are often stressed or anxious
    * Drink too much alcohol (more than 1 drink per day for women and more than 2 drinks per day for men)
    * Eat too much salt
    * Have a family history of high blood pressure
    * Have diabetes
    * Smoke 

Most of the time, no cause of high blood pressure is found. This is called
essential hypertension.

High blood pressure that is caused by another medical condition or medicine
you are taking is called secondary hypertension. Secondary hypertension may be
due to:

    * Chronic kidney disease
    * Disorders of the adrenal gland (such as pheochromocytoma or Cushing syndrome)
    * Hyperparathyroidism
    * Pregnancy or preeclampsia
    * Medicines such as birth control pills, diet pills, some cold medicines, migraine medicines, corticosteroids, some antipsychotics, and certain medicines used to treat cancer
    * Narrowed artery that supplies blood to the kidney (renal artery stenosis)
    * Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA)

## Symptoms

Most of the time, there are no symptoms. For most people, high blood pressure
is found when they visit their health care provider or have it checked
elsewhere.

Because there are no symptoms, people can develop heart disease and kidney
problems without knowing they have high blood pressure.

Malignant hypertension is a dangerous form of very high blood pressure.
Symptoms mayÂ include:

    * Severe headache
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Confusion
    * Vision changes
    * Nosebleeds 

## Exams and Tests

Diagnosing high blood pressure early can help prevent heart disease, stroke,
eye problems, and chronic kidney disease.

Your provider will measure your blood pressure many times before diagnosing
you with high blood pressure. It is normal for your blood pressure to be
different based on the time of day.

All adults over the age of 18 should have their blood pressure checked every
year. More frequent measurement may be needed for those with a history of high
blood pressure readings or those with risk factors for high blood pressure.

Blood pressure readings taken at home may be a better measure of your current
blood pressure than those taken at your provider's office.

    * Make sure you get a good quality, well-fitting home blood pressure monitor. It should have a properly-sized cuff and a digital readout.
    * Practice with your provider to make sure you are taking your blood pressure correctly.
    * You should be relaxed and seated for several minutes prior to taking a reading.
    * Bring your home monitor to your appointments so your provider can make sure it is working correctly. 

Your provider will do a physical exam to look for signs of heart disease,
damage to the eyes, and other changes in your body.

Tests may also be done to look for:

    * High cholesterol level
    * Heart disease, using tests such as an echocardiogram or electrocardiogram
    * Kidney disease, using tests such as a basic metabolic panel and urinalysis or ultrasound of the kidneys 

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to reduce your blood pressure so that you have a
lower risk of health problems caused by high blood pressure. You and your
provider should set a blood pressure goal for you.

Whenever thinking about the best treatment for high blood pressure, you and
your provider must consider other factors such as:

    * Your age
    * The medicines you take
    * Your risk of side effects from possible medications
    * Other medical conditions you may have, such as a history of heart disease, stroke, kidney problems, or diabetes 

If your blood pressure is between 120/80 and 130/80 mm Hg, you have elevated
blood pressure.

    * Your provider will recommend lifestyle changes to bring your blood pressure down to a normal range.
    * Medicines are rarely used at this stage. 

If your blood pressure is higher than 130/80, but lower than 140/90 mm Hg, you
have Stage 1 high blood pressure. When thinking about the best treatment, you
and your provider must consider:

    * If you have no other diseases or risk factors, your provider may recommend lifestyle changes and repeat the measurements after a few months.
    * If your blood pressure remains above 130/80, but lower than 140/90 mm Hg, your provider may recommend medicines to treat high blood pressure.
    * If you have other diseases or risk factors, your provider may be more likely to start medicines at the same time as lifestyle changes. 

If your blood pressure is higher than 140/90 mm Hg, you have Stage 2 high
blood pressure. Your provider will most likely start you on medicines and
recommend lifestyle changes.

Before making a final diagnosis of either elevated blood pressure or high
blood pressure, your provider should ask you to have your blood pressure
measured at home, at your pharmacy, or somewhere else besides their office or
a hospital.

LIFESTYLE CHANGES

You can do many things to help control your blood pressure, including:

    * Eat a heart-healthy diet, including potassium and fiber.
    * Drink plenty of water.
    * Get at least 40 minutes of moderate to vigorous aerobic exercise at least 3 to 4 days a week.
    * If you smoke, quit.
    * Limit how much alcohol you drink to 1 drink a day for women, and 2 a day for men or less.
    * Limit the amount of sodium (salt) you eat. Aim for less than 1,500 mg per day.
    * Reduce stress. Try to avoid things that cause you stress, and try meditation or yoga to de-stress.
    * Stay at a healthy body weight. 
![Lifestyle changes](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18167.jpg)

Your provider can help you find programs for losing weight, stopping smoking,
and exercising.

You can also get a referral to a dietitian, who can help you plan a diet that
is healthy for you.

How low your blood pressure should be and at what level you need to start
treatment is individualized, based on your age and any medical problems you
have.

MEDICINES FOR HYPERTENSION

Most of the time, your provider will try lifestyle changes first, and check
your blood pressure two or more times. Medicines will likely be started if
your blood pressure readings remain at or above these levels:

    * Top number (systolic pressure) of 130 or more
    * Bottom number (diastolic pressure) of 80 or more 

If you have diabetes, heart problems, or a history of a stroke, medicines may
be started at lower blood pressure reading. The most commonly used blood
pressure targets for people with these medical problems are below 120 to
130/80 mm Hg.

There are many different medicines to treat high blood pressure.

    * Often, a single blood pressure drug may not be enough to control your blood pressure, and you may need to take two or more drugs.
    * It is very important that you take the medicines prescribed to you.
    * If you have side effects, your doctor can substitute a different medicine. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most of the time, high blood pressure can be controlled with medicine and
lifestyle changes.

When blood pressure is not well-controlled, you are at risk for:

    * Bleeding from the aorta, the large blood vessel that supplies blood to the abdomen, pelvis, and legs
    * Chronic kidney disease
    * Heart attack and heart failure
    * Poor blood supply to the legs
    * Problems with your vision
    * Stroke

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you have high blood pressure, you will have regular checkups with your
provider.

Even if you have not been diagnosed with high blood pressure, it is important
to have your blood pressure checked during your regular check-up, especially
if someone in your family has or had high blood pressure.

Call your provider right away if home monitoring shows that your blood
pressure is still high.

## Prevention

Most people can prevent high blood pressure from occurring by following
lifestyle changes designed to bring blood pressure down.

## Alternative Names

Hypertension; HBP

## Patient Instructions

    * ACE inhibitors
    * Angioplasty and stent - heart - discharge 
    * Antiplatelet drugs - P2Y12 inhibitors
    * Aspirin and heart disease
    * Butter, margarine, and cooking oils
    * Cholesterol and lifestyle
    * Controlling your high blood pressure
    * Diabetes eye care
    * Diabetes - preventing heart attack and stroke
    * Diabetes - taking care of your feet
    * Diabetes tests and checkups
    * Dietary fats explained
    * Fast food tips
    * Heart attack - discharge
    * Heart disease - risk factors
    * Heart failure - discharge
    * Heart failure - fluids and diuretics
    * Heart failure - home monitoring
    * Heart failure - what to ask your doctor 
    * High blood pressure - what to ask your doctor 
    * How to read food labels
    * Implantable cardioverter defibrillator - discharge
    * Kidney removal - discharge
    * Low-salt diet 
    * Mediterranean diet
    * Type 2 diabetes - what to ask your doctor

## Images

    * ![Monitoring blood pressure](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18165t.jpg)Monitoring blood pressure
    * ![Untreated hypertension](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18166t.jpg)Untreated hypertension
    * ![Lifestyle changes](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18167t.jpg)Lifestyle changes
    * ![DASH diet](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19226t.jpg)DASH diet
    * ![High blood pressure tests](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19232t.jpg)High blood pressure tests
    * ![Blood pressure check](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19255t.jpg)Blood pressure check
    * ![Blood pressure](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9124t.jpg)Blood pressure

## References

American Diabetes Association. 9. Cardiovascular disease and risk management:
standards of medical care in diabetes-2018. _Diabetes Care_. 2018;41(Suppl
1):S86-S104. PMID: 29222380 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29222380.

James PA, Oparil S, Carter BL, et al. 2014 evidence-based guideline for the
management of high blood pressure in adults: report from the panel members
appointed to the Eighth Joint National Committee (JNC 8). _JAMA_.
2014;311(5):507-520. PMID: 24352797 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24352797.

Meschia JF, Bushnell C, Boden-Albala B, et al; American Heart Association
Stroke Council; Council on Cardiovascular and Stroke Nursing; Council on
Clinical Cardiology; Council on Functional Genomics and Translational Biology;
Council on Hypertension. Guidelines for the primary prevention of stroke: a
statement for healthcare professionals from the American Heart
Association/American Stroke Association. _Stroke_. 2014;45(12):3754-3832.
PMID: 25355838 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25355838.

Palmer SC, Mavridis D, Navarese E, et al. Comparative efficacy and safety of
blood pressure-lowering agents in adults with diabetes and kidney disease: a
network meta-analysis. _Lancet_. 2015;385(9982):2047-2056. PMID: 26009228
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26009228.

Siu AL; US Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for high blood pressure
in adults: US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann
Intern Med_. 2015;163(10):778-786. PMID: 26458123
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26458123.

Victor RG. Systemic hypertension: mechanisms and diagnosis. In: Zipes DP,
Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 46.

Victor RG, Libby P. Systemic hypertension: management. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 47.

Weber MA, Schiffrin EL, White WB, et al. Clinical practice guidelines for the
management of hypertension in the community: a statement by the American
Society of Hypertension and the International Society of Hypertension. _J Clin
Hypertens_ (Greenwich). 2014;16(1):14-26. PMID: 24341872
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24341872.

Whelton PK, Carey RM, Aronow WS, et al. 2017
ACC/AHA/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/AGS/APhA/ASH/ASPC/NMA/PCNA guideline for the prevention,
detection, evaluation, and management of high blood pressure in adults: a
report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task
Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol._
2018;71(19):e127-e248. PMID: 29146535 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29146535.

Xie X, Atkins E, Lv J, et al. Effects of intensive blood pressure lowering on
cardiovascular and renal outcomes: updated systematic review and meta-
analysis. _Lancet_. 2016;387(10017):435-443. PMID: 26559744
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26559744.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![High Blood
Pressure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HighBloodPressure_thumb.jpg)High
Blood Pressure _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

