Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/anatomyvideos/000013.htm    
                                Description: Normal blood pressure is important for proper blood flow to the body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Videos & Tools ->

Health Videos ->

Blood pressure

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/anatomyvideos/000013.htm

# Blood pressure

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Play health video: //medlineplus.gov/ency/videos/mov/200079_eng.mp4

What's this?Play health video with audio description:
//medlineplus.gov/ency/videos/mov/200079_eng_ad.mp4

## Overview

Normal blood pressure is important for proper blood flow to the body's organs
and tissues. The force of the blood on the walls of the arteries is called
blood pressure. Blood pressure is measured both as the heart contracts, which
is called systole, and as it relaxes, which is called diastole. Normal blood
pressure is considered to be a systolic blood pressure of 115 millimeters of
mercury a diastolic pressure of 70 millimeters of mercury, stated as "115 over
70". If an individual were to have a consistent blood pressure reading of 140
over 90, he would be evaluated for having high blood pressure. If left
untreated, high blood pressure can damage important organs, such as the brain
and kidneys, as well as lead to a stroke.

## Review Date 5/10/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * High Blood Pressure
    * How to Prevent High Blood Pressure
    * Low Blood Pressure
    * Vital Signs

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

