Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000524.htm    
                                Description: Chronic nonbacterial prostatitis causes long-term pain and urinary symptoms. It involves the prostate gland or other parts of a man    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Prostatitis - nonbacterial

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000524.htm

# Prostatitis - nonbacterial

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chronic nonbacterial prostatitis causes long-term pain and urinary symptoms.
It involves the prostate gland or other parts of a man's lower urinary tract
or genital area. This condition is not caused by an infection with bacteria.

## Causes

Possible causes of nonbacterial prostatitis include:

    * A past bacterial prostatitis infection
    * Bicycle riding
    * Less common types of bacteria
    * Irritation caused by a backup of urine flowing into the prostate
    * Irritation from chemicals
    * Nerve problem involving the lower urinary tract
    * Parasites
    * Pelvic floor muscle problem
    * Sexual abuse
    * Viruses

Life stresses and emotional factors may play a part in the problem.

Most men with chronic prostatitis have the nonbacterial form.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Blood in the semen
    * Blood in the urine
    * Pain in the genital area and lower back
    * Pain with bowel movements
    * Pain with ejaculation
    * Problems with urinating 

## Exams and Tests

Most of the time, a physical exam is normal. However, the prostate may be
swollen or tender.

Urine tests may show white or red blood cells in the urine. A semen culture
may show a higher number of white blood cells and low sperm count with poor
movement.

Urine culture or culture from the prostate does not show bacteria.

## Treatment

Treatment for nonbacterial prostatitis is difficult. The problem is hard to
cure, so the goal is to control symptoms.

Several types of medicines may be used to treat the condition. These include:

    * Long-term antibiotics to make sure that the prostatitis is not caused by bacteria. However, people who are not helped by antibiotics should stop taking these medicines.
    * Drugs called alpha-adrenergic blockers help relax the muscles of the prostate gland. It often takes about 6 weeks before these medicines start working. Many people do not get relief from these medicines.
    * Aspirin, ibuprofen, and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), which may relieve symptoms for some men.
    * Muscle relaxers like diazepam or cyclobenzaprine can help to reduce spasms in the pelvic floor. 

Some people have found some relief from pollen extract (Cernitin) and
allopurinol. But research does not confirm their benefit. Stool softeners may
help reduce discomfort with bowel movements.

Surgery, called transurethral resection of the prostate, may be done in rare
cases if medicine does not help. In most cases, this surgery is not done on
younger men. It may cause retrograde ejaculation. This can lead to sterility,
impotence, and incontinence.

Other treatments that may be tried include:

    * Warm baths to ease some of the pain
    * Prostate massage, acupuncture, and relaxation exercises
    * Dietary changes to avoid bladder and urinary tract irritants
    * Pelvic floor physical therapy 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Many people respond to treatment. However, others do not get relief, even
after trying many things. Symptoms often come back and may not be treatable.

## Possible Complications

Untreated symptoms of nonbacterial prostatitis may lead to sexual and urinary
problems. These problems can affect your lifestyle and emotional well-being.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have symptoms of prostatitis.

## Alternative Names

NBP; Prostatodynia; Pelvic pain syndrome; CPPS; Chronic nonbacterial
prostatitis; Chronic genitourinary pain

## Images

    * ![Male reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1113t.jpg)Male reproductive anatomy

## References

Carter C. Urinary tract disorders. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds. _Textbook of
Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 40.

Kaplan SA. Benign prostatic hyperplasia and prostatitis. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 120.

McGowan CC. Prostatitis, epididymitis, and orchitis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R,
Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 110.

Nickel JC. Inflammatory and pain conditions of the male genitourinary tract:
prostatitis and related pain conditions, orchitis, and epididymitis. In: Wein
AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 13.

## Review Date 7/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Prostate
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ProstateDiseases_thumb.jpg)Prostate
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

