Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003140.htm    
                                Description: Frequent urination means needing to urinate more often than usual. Urgent urination is a sudden, strong need to urinate. This causes a discomfort in your bladder. Urgent urination makes it difficult to    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Frequent or urgent urination

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003140.htm

# Frequent or urgent urination

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Frequent urination means needing to urinate more often than usual. Urgent
urination is a sudden, strong need to urinate. This causes a discomfort in
your bladder. Urgent urination makes it difficult to delay using the toilet.

A frequent need to urinate at night is called nocturia. Most people can sleep
for 6 to 8 hours without having to urinate.

## Causes

Common causes of these symptoms are:

    * Urinary tract infection (UTI)
    * Enlarged prostate in middle-aged and older men
    * Swelling and infection of the urethra
    * Vaginitis (swelling or discharge of the vulva and vagina)
    * Nerve related problems
    * Caffeine intake

Less common causes include:

    * Alcohol use
    * Anxiety
    * Bladder cancer (not common)
    * Spine problems
    * Diabetes that is not well controlled
    * Pregnancy
    * Interstitial cystitis
    * Medicines such as water pills (diuretics)
    * Overactive bladder syndrome
    * Radiation therapy to the pelvis, which is used to treat certain cancers
    * Stroke and other brain or nervous system diseases
    * Tumor or growth in the pelvis

## Home Care

Follow the advice of your health care provider to treat the cause of the
problem.

It may help to write down the times when you urinate and the amount of urine
you produce. Bring this record to your visit with the provider. This is called
a voiding diary.

In some cases, you may have problems controlling urine (incontinence) for a
period of time. You may need to take steps to protect your clothing and
bedding.

For nighttime urination, avoid drinking too much fluid before going to bed.
Cut down on the amount of liquids you drink that contain alcohol or caffeine.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider right away if:

    * You have fever, back or side pain, vomiting, or shaking chills 
    * You have increased thirst or appetite, fatigue, or sudden weight loss 

Also call your provider if:

    * You have urinary frequency or urgency, but you are not pregnant and you are not drinking large amounts of fluid. 
    * You have incontinence or you have changed your lifestyle because of your symptoms.
    * You have bloody or cloudy urine.
    * There is a discharge from the penis or vagina. 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will take a medical history and do a physical exam.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Urinalysis
    * Urine culture
    * Cystometry or urodynamic testing (a measurement of the pressure within the bladder)
    * Cystoscopy
    * Nervous system tests (for some urgency problems)
    * Ultrasound (such as an abdominal ultrasound or a pelvic ultrasound)

Treatment depends on the cause of the urgency and frequency. You may need to
take antibiotics and medicine to ease your discomfort.

## Alternative Names

Urgent urination; Urinary frequency or urgency; Urgency-frequency syndrome;
Overactive bladder (OAB) syndrome; Urge syndrome

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract

## References

Drake MJ. Overactive bladder. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA,
eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
76.

Goddard J, Turner AN. Kidney and urinary tract disease. In: Walker BR,
Colledge NR, Ralston SH, Penman ID, eds. _Davidson's Principles and Practice
of Medicine_. 22nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone;
2014:chap 17.

Zeidel ML. Obstructive uropathy. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 123.

## Review Date 5/31/2018

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bladder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BladderCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bladder
Diseases _Read more_

![Enlarged Prostate
\(BPH\)](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EnlargedProstate\(BPH\)_thumb.jpg)Enlarged
Prostate (BPH) _Read more_

![Overactive
Bladder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OveractiveBladder_thumb.jpg)Overactive
Bladder _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

