Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003163.htm    
                                Description: Blood in the semen is called hematospermia. It may be in amounts too small to be seen except with a microscope, or it may be visible in the ejaculation fluid.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Blood in the semen

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003163.htm

# Blood in the semen

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Blood in the semen is called hematospermia. It may be in amounts too small to
be seen except with a microscope, or it may be visible in the ejaculation
fluid.

## Causes

Most of the time, the cause for blood in the semen is not known. It can be
caused by swelling or infection of the prostate or seminal vesicles. The
problem may occur after a prostate biopsy.

Blood in the semen may also be caused by:

    * Blockage due to enlarged prostate (prostate problems)
    * Infection of the prostate
    * Irritation in the urethra (urethritis)
    * Injury to the urethra 

Often, the cause of the problem cannot be found.

Sometimes, the visible blood will last several days to weeks, depending on the
cause of the blood and if any clots formed in the seminal vesicles.

Depending on the cause, other symptoms that may occur include:

    * Blood in the urine
    * Fever or chills
    * Lower back pain
    * Pain with bowel movement
    * Pain with ejaculation
    * Pain with urination
    * Swelling in the scrotum
    * Swelling or tenderness in the groin area
    * Tenderness in the scrotum 

## Home Care

The following steps may help ease discomfort from a prostate infection or
urinary infection:

    * Take over-the-counter pain relievers such as ibuprofen or naproxen.
    * Drink plenty of fluids.
    * Eat high-fiber foods to make bowel movements easier.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Always call your health care provider if you notice any blood in your semen.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam and look for signs of:

    * Discharge from the urethra
    * Enlarged or tender prostate
    * Fever
    * Swollen lymph nodes
    * Swollen or tender scrotum

You may need the following tests:

    * Prostate exam
    * PSA blood test
    * Semen analysis
    * Semen culture
    * Ultrasound or MRI of the prostate, pelvis or scrotum
    * Urinalysis
    * Urine culture

## Alternative Names

Semen - bloody; Blood in ejaculation; Hematospermia

## Images

    * ![Blood in semen](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23218t.jpg)Blood in semen

## References

Gerber GS, Brendler CB. Evaluation of the urologic patient: history, physical
examination, and urinalysis. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA,
eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
1.

Kaplan SA. Benign prostatic hyperplasia and prostatitis. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 120.

O'Connell TX. Hematospermia. In: O'Connell TX, ed. _Instant Work-ups: A
Clinical Guide to Medicine_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 30.

Small EJ. Prostate cancer. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2020:chap 191.

## Review Date 7/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Bleeding _Read
more_

![Prostate
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ProstateDiseases_thumb.jpg)Prostate
Diseases _Read more_

![Testicular
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TesticularDisorders_thumb.jpg)Testicular
Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

