Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000519.htm    
                                Description: Prostatitis is inflammation of the prostate gland. This problem can be caused by an infection with bacteria. However, this is not a common cause.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Prostatitis - bacterial

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000519.htm

# Prostatitis - bacterial

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Prostatitis is inflammation of the prostate gland. This problem can be caused
by an infection with bacteria. However, this is not a common cause.

Acute prostatitis starts quickly. Long-term (chronic) prostatitis lasts for 3
months or more.

Ongoing irritation of the prostate that is not caused by bacteria is called
chronic nonbacterial prostatitis.

## Causes

Any bacteria that can cause a urinary tract infection can cause acute
bacterial prostatitis.

Infections spread through sexual contact can cause prostatitis. These include
chlamydia and gonorrhea. Sexually transmitted infections (STIs) are more
likely to occur from:

    * Certain sexual practices, such as having anal sex without wearing a condom
    * Having many sexual partners

In men over age 35 years, _E coli_ and other common bacteria most often cause
prostatitis. This type of prostatitis may begin in the:

    * Epididymis, a small tube that sits on top of the testes.
    * Urethra, the tube that carries urine from your bladder and out through the penis.

Acute prostatitis may also be caused by problems with the urethra or prostate,
such as:

    * Blockage that reduces or prevent the flow of urine out of the bladder
    * Foreskin of the penis that cannot be pulled back (phimosis)
    * Injury to the area between the scrotum and anus (perineum)
    * Urinary catheter, cystoscopy, or prostate biopsy (removing a piece of tissue to look for cancer)

Men age 50 years or older who have an enlarged prostate have a higher risk for
prostatitis. The prostate gland may become blocked. This makes it easier for
bacteria to grow. Symptoms of chronic prostatitis can be similar to symptoms
of an enlarged prostate gland.

## Symptoms

Symptoms can start quickly, and can include:

    * Chills
    * Fever
    * Flushing of the skin
    * Lower stomach tenderness
    * Body aches

Symptoms of chronic prostatitis are similar, but not as severe. They often
begin more slowly. Some people have no symptoms between episodes of
prostatitis.

Urinary symptoms include:

    * Blood in the urine
    * Burning or pain with urination
    * Difficulty starting to urinate or emptying the bladder
    * Foul-smelling urine
    * Weak urine stream

Other symptoms that may occur with this condition:

    * Pain or aching in the abdomen above the pubic bone, in the lower back, in the area between the genitals and anus, or in the testicles
    * Pain with ejaculation or blood in the semen
    * Pain with bowel movements

If prostatitis occurs with an infection in or around the testicles
(epididymitis or orchitis), you may also have symptoms of that condition.

## Exams and Tests

During a physical exam, your health care provider may find:

    * Enlarged or tender lymph nodes in your groin
    * Fluid released from your urethra
    * Swollen or tender scrotum

The provider may perform a digital rectal exam to examine your prostate.
During this exam, the provider inserts a lubricated, gloved finger into your
rectum. The exam should be done very gently to reduce the risk of spreading
bacteria into the blood stream.

The exam may reveal that the prostate is:

    * Large and soft (with a chronic prostate infection)
    * Swollen, or tender (with an acute prostate infection)

Urine samples may be collected for urinalysis and urine culture.

Prostatitis may affect the results of the prostate-specific antigen (PSA), a
blood test to screen for prostate cancer.

## Treatment

Antibiotics are often used to treat prostate infections.

    * For acute prostatitis, you will take antibiotics for 2 to 6 weeks.
    * For chronic prostatitis, you will take antibiotics for at least 2 to 6 weeks. Because the infection can come back, you may need to take medicine for up to 12 weeks.

Often, the infection will not go away, even after taking antibiotics for a
long time. Your symptoms may come back when you stop the medicine.

If your swollen prostate gland makes it hard to empty your bladder, you may
need a tube to empty it. The tube may be inserted through your abdomen
(suprapubic catheter) or through your penis (indwelling catheter).

To care for prostatitis at home:

    * Urinate often and completely.
    * Take warm baths to relieve pain.
    * Take stool softeners to make bowel movements more comfortable.
    * Avoid substances that irritate your bladder, such as alcohol, caffeinated foods and drinks, citrus juices, and hot or spicy foods.
    * Drink more fluid (64 to 128 ounces or 2 to 4 liters per day) to urinate often and help flush bacteria out of your bladder.

Get checked by your provider after you finish taking your antibiotic treatment
to make sure the infection is gone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Acute prostatitis should go away with medicine and minor changes to your diet
and behavior.

It may come back or turn into chronic prostatitis.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Abscess
    * Inability to urinate (urinary retention)
    * Spread of bacteria from the prostate to the bloodstream (sepsis)
    * Chronic pain or discomfort
    * Inability to have sex (sexual dysfunction)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of prostatitis.

## Prevention

Not all types of prostatitis can be prevented. Practice safe sex behaviors.

## Alternative Names

Chronic prostatitis - bacterial; Acute prostatitis

## Images

    * ![Male reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1113t.jpg)Male reproductive anatomy

## References

Nickel JC. Inflammatory and pain conditions of the male genitourinary tract:
prostatitis and related pain conditions, orchitis, and epididymitis. In: Wein
AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 13.

Nicolle LE. Urinary tract infection. In: Lerma EV, Sparks MA, Topf JM, eds.
_Nephrology Secrets_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 46.

McGowan CC. Prostatitis, epididymitis, and orchitis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R,
Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Disease_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 110.

US Department of Health and Human Services; National Institute of Diabetes and
Digestive and Kidney Diseases. Prostatitis: inflammation of the prostate.
www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/urologic-diseases/prostate-
problems/prostatitis-inflammation-prostate. Updated July 2014. Accessed August
7, 2019.

## Review Date 7/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Prostate
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ProstateDiseases_thumb.jpg)Prostate
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

