Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003145.htm    
                                Description: Painful urination is any pain, discomfort, or burning sensation when passing urine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urination - painful

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003145.htm

# Urination - painful

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Painful urination is any pain, discomfort, or burning sensation when passing
urine.

## Considerations

Pain may be felt right where the urine passes out of the body. Or, it may be
felt inside the body, behind the pubic bone, or in the bladder or prostate.

Pain on urination is a fairly common problem. People who have pain with
urination also may have the urge to urinate more often.

## Causes

Painful urination is most often caused by an infection or inflammation
somewhere in the urinary tract, such as:

    * Bladder infection (adult)
    * Bladder infection (child)
    * Swelling and irritation of the tube that carries urine out of the body (urethra)

Painful urination in women and girls may be due to:

    * Changes in the vaginal tissue during menopause (atrophic vaginitis)
    * Herpes infection in the genital area
    * Irritation of the vaginal tissue caused by bubble bath, perfumes, or lotions
    * Vulvovaginitis, such as yeast or other infections of the vulva and vagina 

Other causes of painful urination include:

    * Interstitial cystitis
    * Prostate infection (prostatitis)
    * Radiation cystitis - damage to the bladder lining from radiation therapy to the pelvis area
    * Sexually transmitted infections (STIs), such as gonorrhea or chlamydia
    * Bladder spasms

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

    * There is drainage or a discharge from your penis or vagina.
    * You are pregnant and are having any painful urination.
    * You have painful urination that lasts for more than 1 day.
    * You notice blood in your urine.
    * You have a fever. 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions such as:

    * When did the painful urination begin?
    * Does the pain occur only during urination? Does it stop after urination?
    * Do you have other symptoms such as back pain?
    * Have you had a fever higher than 100Â°F (37.7Â°C)?
    * Is there drainage or discharge between urinations? Is there an abnormal urine odor? Is there blood in the urine?
    * Are there any changes in the volume or frequency of urination?
    * Do you feel the urge to urinate?
    * Are there any rashes or itching in the genital area?
    * What medicines are you taking?
    * Are you pregnant or could you be pregnant?
    * Have you had a bladder infection?
    * Do you have any allergies to any medicines?
    * Have you had sexual intercourse with someone who has, or may have, gonorrhea or chlamydia?
    * Has there been a recent change in your brand of soap, detergent, or fabric softener?
    * Have you had surgery or radiation to your urinary or sexual organs?

A urinalysis will be done. A urine culture may be ordered. If you have had a
previous bladder or kidney infection, a more detailed history and physical
exam are needed. Extra lab tests will also be needed. A pelvic exam and exam
of vaginal fluids are needed for women and girls who have vaginal discharge.
Men who have discharge from the penis may need to have a urethral swab done.
However, testing a urine sample may be sufficient in some cases.

Other tests may include:

    * Ultrasound of the kidneys and bladder
    * An exam of the inside of bladder with a lighted telescope (cystoscope)

Treatment depends on what is causing the pain.

## Alternative Names

Dysuria; Painful urination

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract

## References

Cody P. Dysuria. In: Kliegman RM, Lye PS, Bordini BJ, Toth H, Basel D, eds.
_Nelson Pediatric Symptom-Based Diagnosis_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 18.

Germann CA, Holmes JA. Selected urologic disorders. In: Walls RM, Hockberger
RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 89.

Schaeffer AJ, Matulewicz RS, Klumpp DJ. Infections of the urinary tract. In:
Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_.
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 12.

Sobel JD, Kaye D. Urinary tract infections. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser
MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 74.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bladder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BladderCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bladder
Diseases _Read more_

![Cistitis
intersticial](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InterstitialCystitis_thumb.jpg)Interstitial
Cystitis _Read more_

![Prostate
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ProstateDiseases_thumb.jpg)Prostate
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

