

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

_Salmonella_

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# Multistate Outbreak of Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry
(Final Update)

Minus

Related Pages

Posted November 8, 2013 2:30 PM ET

This outbreak appears to be over. However, live poultry, including those kept
in backyard flocks, are an important cause of human _Salmonella_ infections in
the United States. More information about _Salmonella_ from live poultry and
the steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection is available.

Highlights

                    * **Read the Advice to Consumers »**
                    * A total of 158 persons infected with the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_ Infantis, _Salmonella_ Lille, _Salmonella_ Newport, or _Salmonella_ Mbandaka were reported from 30 states. 
                      * Among 103 ill persons for whom information was available, 29 (28%) were hospitalized.
                      * 41% of ill persons were children 10 years of age or younger.
                      * 86% of ill people reported contact with live poultry in the week before their illness began.
                    * Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback findings linked this outbreak of human _Salmonella_ Infantis, _Salmonella_ Lille, _Salmonella_ Newport, and _Salmonella_ Mbandaka infections to contact with chicks, ducklings, and other live baby poultry sourced from Mt. Healthy Hatcheries in Ohio. 
                      * 95% of ill persons with available purchase information reported buying chicks and ducklings that were sourced from a single mail-order hatchery in Ohio, Mt. Healthy Hatcheries.
                    * Mail-order hatcheries, agricultural feed stores, and others that sell or display chicks, ducklings, and other live poultry should continue to provide health-related information to owners and potential purchasers of these birds prior to the point of purchase. This should include information about the risk of acquiring a _Salmonella_ infection from contact with live poultry. 
                      * Read the advice to mail-order hatcheries, feed stores, and others that sell or display live poultry.
                    * This outbreak appears to be over. However, live poultry, including those kept in backyard flocks, are an important cause of human _Salmonella_ infections in the United States. 
                      * Always wash hands thoroughly with soap and water right after touching any live poultry or anything in the area where they live and roam. Do not let live poultry inside the house.
                      * These recommendations are important and apply to all live poultry regardless of the age of the birds or where they were purchased.
                      * More information about _Salmonella_ from live poultry and the simple steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection is available.

Outbreak Summary

#### Introduction

CDC collaborated with public health and agriculture officials in many states
and the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Animal and Plant Health
Inspection Service, National Poultry Improvement Plan, and Veterinary Services
to investigate an outbreak of human _Salmonella_ Infantis, _Salmonella_ Lille,
_Salmonella_ Newport, and _Salmonella_ Mbandaka infections linked to contact
with chicks, ducklings, and other live baby poultry sourced from Mt. Healthy
Hatcheries in Ohio. Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to
identify cases of illness that were part of this outbreak. In PulseNet, the
national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency
laboratories coordinated by CDC, DNA "fingerprints" of _Salmonella_ bacteria
are obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis,
or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that were part of this outbreak. This
outbreak of human _Salmonella_ Infantis, Lille, Newport, and Mbandaka
infections was not related to the outbreak of human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium
infections linked to live poultry.

A total of 158 persons infected with the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_
Infantis, _Salmonella_ Lille, _Salmonella_ Newport, or _Salmonella_ Mbandaka
were reported from 30 states: Alabama (3), Arizona (3), California (1),
Colorado (3), Connecticut (3), Delaware (2), Florida (1), Georgia (1),
Illinois (3), Indiana (3), Kentucky (5), Maine (1),Maryland (1), Massachusetts
(8), Minnesota (3), Mississippi (2), Montana (1), Nebraska (1), New Jersey
(2), New York (11), North Carolina (14), Ohio (22), Pennsylvania (14), South
Dakota (1), Tennessee (13), Utah (2), Vermont (2), Virginia (4), West Virginia
(20), and Wisconsin (8).

Among 157 persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates
ranged from March 4, 2013 to October 9, 2013. Ill persons ranged in age from
less than 1 year to 91 years, with a median age of 17 years. Forty-one percent
of ill persons were children 10 years of age or younger. Fifty-three percent
of ill persons were female. Among 103 persons with available information, 29
(28%) reported being hospitalized, and no deaths were reported.

#### Investigation of the Outbreak

Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations conducted by officials
in local, state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory
agencies linked this outbreak to contact with chicks, ducklings, and other
live baby poultry sourced from Mt. Healthy Hatcheries in Ohio.

In interviews, ill persons answered questions about contact with animals and
foods consumed during the week before becoming ill. Eighty-two (86%) of 95 ill
persons interviewed reported contact with live poultry (e.g., chicks,
chickens, ducklings, ducks, turkeys, and goslings) before becoming ill. Sixty-
five (94%) of 69 ill persons reported purchasing live poultry from various
locations of a single chain of agricultural feed stores in multiple states.
Sixty-three (95%) of 66 ill persons with available purchase information
reported buying chicks and ducklings that were sourced from a single mail-
order hatchery in Ohio, Mt. Healthy Hatcheries. Fifty-five ill persons
reported purchasing live poultry for one or more of the following reasons:
eggs (60%), pets (18%), fun/hobby (18%), meat (7%), Easter present (5%), to
release to a lake or pond (5%), fair/exhibition (4%), and pest control (2%).

State health departments tested samples collected from live poultry and the
environments where the live poultry live and roam from ill persons' homes.
Birds from these homes were sourced from Mt. Healthy Hatcheries in Ohio.
Thirty-nine samples from different homes in Minnesota, Ohio, New York, and
Vermont yielded the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_ Infantis and _Salmonella_
Mbandaka.

This is the same mail-order hatchery that was associated with the 2012
outbreak of _Salmonella_ Infantis, _Salmonella_ Newport, and _Salmonella_
Lille infections. Moreover, the strain of _Salmonella_ Infantis identified in
this outbreak is the same strain seen in the 2012 outbreak. Public health and
agriculture officials continue to work with this hatchery and have made
recommendations for improvement. This hatchery uses multiple source flocks to
obtain eggs and chicks, so it is unclear where the contamination originated.
Mt. Healthy Hatcheries is a participant in the USDA National Poultry
Improvement Plan (NPIP) program. The NPIP program is intended to eliminate
certain strains of _Salmonella_ that cause illness in poultry breeding flocks
and hatcheries, but this program currently does not certify that these poultry
are free from other strains of _Salmonella_ that may cause human illness.

Contact with live poultry can be a source of human _Salmonella_ infections.
Poultry typically appear healthy and clean but can be carrying _Salmonella_
germs that can make people sick. Many ill persons in this outbreak reported
bringing live poultry into their homes or reported kissing or cuddling with
the birds. These behaviors increase a person's risk of a _Salmonella_
infection from contact with live poultry. Always wash hands thoroughly with
soap and water right after touching live poultry or anything in the area where
they live and roam. Adults should supervise hand washing for young children.
Additional recommendations are available. These recommendations are important
and apply to all live poultry regardless of the age of the birds or where they
were purchased.

Mail-order hatcheries, agricultural feed stores, and others who sell or
display chicks, ducklings, and other live poultry should provide health-
related information to owners and potential purchasers of these birds prior to
the point of purchase. This should include information about the risk of
acquiring a _Salmonella_ infection from contact with live poultry.
Agricultural feed store staff should clean and disinfect live poultry display
areas routinely, especially before new live poultry are added to the display.
Additional recommendations are available.

Progression of the Outbreak Investigation

#### November 8, 2013

#### Final Case Count Update

A total of 158 persons infected with the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_
Infantis, _Salmonella_ Lille, _Salmonella_ Newport, or _Salmonella_ Mbandaka
were reported from 30 states. Since the last update on July 18, 2013, 34 new
ill persons were reported from Colorado (1), Delaware (1), Florida (1),
Indiana (2), Kentucky (1), Massachusetts (1), Montana (1), New York (1), North
Carolina (4), Ohio (3), Pennsylvania (6), South Dakota (1), Tennessee (1),
Utah (2), Virginia (1), West Virginia (5), and Wisconsin (2).

Among the persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began
between March 4, 2013 and October 9, 2013. Ill persons ranged in age from less
than one year to 91 years, with a median age of 17 years. Forty-one percent of
ill persons were 10 years of age or younger. Fifty-three percent of ill
persons were female. Among 103 ill persons with available information, 29
(28%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported.

This outbreak appears to be over. However, live poultry, including those kept
in backyard flocks, are an important cause of human _Salmonella_ infections in
the United States.

#### July 18, 2013

#### Case Count Update

A total of 125 persons infected with the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_
Infantis, _Salmonella_ Lille _, Salmonella_ Newport, or _Salmonella_ Mbandaka
have been reported from 26 states. Since the last update, 28 new ill persons
have been reported from Arizona (3), Colorado (2), Delaware (1), Georgia (1),
Illinois (2), Indiana (1), Massachusetts (2), New York (2), North Carolina
(5), Ohio (2), Pennsylvania (1), Tennessee (3), West Virginia (2), and
Wisconsin (1). This outbreak of human _Salmonella_ Infantis, Lille, Newport,
and Mbandaka infections is not related to the current outbreak of human
_Salmonella_ Typhimurium infections linked to live poultry.

Among the persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began
between and March 4, 2013 and July 5, 2013. Ill persons range in age from less
than one year to 91 years, and 41% of ill persons are 10 years of age or
younger. Fifty-four percent of ill persons are female. Among 78 ill persons
with available information, 23 (15%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have
been reported.

Illnesses that occurred after June 23, 2013 might not yet be reported due to
the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is
reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks.

#### June 4, 2013

#### Case Count Update

A total of 98 persons infected with the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_
Infantis, _Salmonella_ Lille _, Salmonella_ Newport, or _Salmonella_ Mbandaka
have been reported from 21 states. Since the last update, 37 new ill persons
have been reported from Alabama (3), California (2), Connecticut (3), Illinois
(2), Kentucky (4), Maine (1), Maryland (1), Massachusetts (5), Minnesota (3),
Mississippi (2), Nebraska (1), New Jersey (2), New York (8), North Carolina
(5), Ohio (17), Pennsylvania (7), Tennessee (9), Virginia (3), Vermont (2),
West Virginia (13), and Wisconsin (5).

Based on ongoing epidemiologic investigations, additional ill persons infected
with _Salmonella_ serotypes Lille and Newport reported contact with chicks,
ducklings, and other live baby poultry from Mt. Healthy Hatchery in Ohio, and
these strains have been added to the outbreak. The strains of _Salmonella_
identified in the current outbreak were also seen during the 2012 outbreak of
_Salmonella_ Infantis, _Salmonella_ Newport, and _Salmonella_ Lille infections
linked to Mt. Healthy Hatchery in Ohio. This outbreak of human _Salmonella_
Infantis, Lille, Newport, and Mbandaka infections is not related to the
current outbreak of human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium infections linked to live
poultry.

Among the persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began
between and March 8, 2013 and May 15, 2013. Ill persons range in age from less
than one year to 91 years, and 44% of ill persons are 10 years of age or
younger. Fifty-four percent of ill persons are female. Among 60 ill persons
with available information, 16 (27%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have
been reported.

Illnesses that occurred after May 8, 2013 might not yet be reported due to the
time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is
reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks.

#### May 10, 2013

#### Case Count Update

CDC is collaborating with public health and agriculture officials in many
states and the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Animal and Plant Health
Inspection Service (USDA-APHIS) to investigate multiple outbreaks of human
_Salmonella_ infections linked to live poultry. This outbreak of human
_Salmonella_ Infantis and _Salmonella_ Mbandaka infections is not related to
the current outbreak of human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium infections linked to
live poultry.

Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify cases of
illness that may be part of this outbreak. In PulseNet, the national subtyping
network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated
by CDC, DNA "fingerprints" of _Salmonella_ bacteria are obtained through
diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify
cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak.

As of May 7, 2013, a total of 61 persons infected with the outbreak strains of
_Salmonella_ Infantis and _Salmonella_ Mbandaka have been reported from 18
states. The number of ill persons identified in each state is as follows:
Alabama (2), Connecticut (3), Illinois (1), Kentucky (2), Massachusetts (3),
Minnesota (3), Mississippi (1), Nebraska (1), New Jersey (1), New York (5),
North Carolina (5), Ohio (8), Pennsylvania (5), Tennessee (9), Virginia (2),
Vermont (1), Wisconsin (2), and West Virginia (7).

Among the persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began
between and March 8, 2013 and April 22, 2013. Ill persons range in age from
less than one year to 88 years, and 48% of ill persons are 10 years of age or
younger. Fifty-six percent of ill persons are female. Among 34 ill persons
with available information, 12 (35%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have
been reported.

This outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of
persons who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi
curve. Illnesses that occurred after April 15, 2013 might not yet be reported
due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the
illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the
_Salmonella_ Outbreak Investigations: Timeline for Reporting Cases for more
details.

#### Investigation Update

In interviews, ill persons answered questions about contact with animals and
foods consumed during the week before becoming ill. Thirty-six (100%) of 36
ill persons interviewed reported contact with live poultry (e.g., chicks,
chickens, ducks, ducklings) before becoming ill. Thirty-four (97%) of 35 ill
persons with available purchase information reported purchasing live baby
poultry from various locations of a single chain of agricultural feed stores
in multiple states. Ill persons reported purchasing live poultry for backyard
flocks to produce eggs or meat, or to keep as pets.

State health departments have tested samples collected from chicks in ill
persons' homes and retail locations. Samples collected by Minnesota, Ohio, and
Vermont yielded the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_ Infantis and _Salmonella_
Mbandaka.

Findings of multiple traceback investigations of live baby poultry from homes
of ill persons have identified Mt. Healthy Hatchery in Ohio as the source of
chicks and ducklings. This hatchery uses multiple source flocks to obtain eggs
and chicks, so it is unclear at this time where the contamination originated.
This is the same mail-order hatchery that was associated with the 2012
outbreak of _Salmonella_ Infantis, _Salmonella_ Newport, and _Salmonella_
Lille infections. Moreover, the strain of _Salmonella_ Infantis identified in
the current outbreak is the same strain seen in the 2012 outbreak. Public
health and agriculture officials continue to work with this hatchery and have
made recommendations for improvement. The hatchery is a member of the USDA
National Poultry Improvement Plan, a program that is intended to eliminate
certain strains of _Salmonella_ that cause illness in poultry breeding flocks
and hatcheries, but does not certify that these live poultry are free from
other strains of _Salmonella_ that may cause human illness.

Contact with live poultry can be a source of human _Salmonella_ infections.
Some ill persons in this outbreak reported bringing the live poultry into
their homes and kissing or cuddling with the live poultry. These behaviors
increase the risk a person's risk of a _Salmonella_ infection from contact
with live poultry. Always wash hands thoroughly with soap and water right
after touching live poultry or anything in the area where they live and roam.
Adults should supervise hand washing for young children. Additional
recommendations are available. These recommendations are important and apply
to all live poultry regardless of the age of the birds or where they were
purchased.

Mail-order hatcheries, agricultural feed stores, and others who sell or
display chicks, ducklings and other live poultry should provide health-related
information to owners and potential purchasers of these birds prior to the
point of purchase. This should include information about the risk of acquiring
a _Salmonella_ infection from contact with live poultry.

#### Initial Announcement

#### April 25, 2013

CDC is collaborating with public health and agriculture officials in many
states and the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Animal and Plant Health
Inspection Service (USDA-APHIS) to investigate multistate outbreaks of human
_Salmonella_ Infantis, _Salmonella_ Mbandaka, and _Salmonella_ Typhimurium
infections linked to contact with chicks, ducklings, and other live poultry.

Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify cases of
illness that may be part of these outbreaks. In PulseNet, the national
subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories
coordinated by CDC, DNA "fingerprints" of _Salmonella_ bacteria are obtained
through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to
identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. The USDA National
Poultry Improvement Plan is a program that is intended to eliminate certain
strains of _Salmonella_ that cause illness in poultry breeding flocks and
hatcheries, but does not certify that these live poultry are free from other
strains of _Salmonella_ that may cause human illness.

In interviews, ill people reported purchasing live baby poultry (e.g., chicks,
ducklings) from multiple feed stores and mail-order hatcheries. Investigations
are ongoing to determine the source of the live poultry in these outbreaks.

Contact with live poultry, including baby or adult birds, can be a source of
human _Salmonella_ infections. These birds typically appear healthy and clean,
but can be shedding germs that can make people sick. Always wash hands
thoroughly with soap and water right after touching live poultry or anything
in the area where they live and roam. Adults should supervise hand washing for
young children. Additional recommendations are available. These
recommendations are important and apply to all live poultry regardless of the
age of the birds or where they were purchased.

Mail-order hatcheries, agricultural feed stores, and others who sell or
display chicks, ducklings and other live poultry should provide health-related
information to owners and potential purchasers of these birds prior to the
point of purchase.This should include information about the risk of acquiring
_Salmonella_ infection from contact with live poultry.

This investigation is ongoing and CDC will update the public when additional
information is available.

At a Glance:

                    * Case Count: 158
                    * States: 30
                    * Deaths: 0
                    * Hospitalizations: 29
                    * Recall: No

More Information:

                    * Advice to Consumers
                    * Signs & Symptoms
                    * Key Resources

CLICK TO VIEW EPI CURVE GRAPHS

![Final Epi Curve: Persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella
Infantis, Lille, Newport, or Mbandaka, by date of illness
onset](/salmonella/live-poultry-04-13/images/110713-epi-sm.jpg)

CLICK TO VIEW CASE COUNT MAPS

![Final Case Count Map: Persons infected with the outbreak strains of
Salmonella Infantis, Lille, Newport, or Mbandaka, by State](/salmonella/live-
poultry-04-13/images/110713-map-sm.jpg)

Page last reviewed: November 8, 2013

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Foodborne,
Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases (DFWED)

home _Salmonella_ Homepage

                    * Questions & Answersplus icon
                      * Additional Information
                    * Prevention
                    * Symptoms
                    * Diagnosis & Treatmentplus icon
                      * Diagnostic and Public Health Testing
                    * Current Outbreaksplus icon
                      * Reporting Timeline
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Pet Turtlesplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tortugas mascota pequeÃ±as
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Cut Fruitplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Ground Beefplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a la carne de res molida
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Turtlesplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a turtugas mascota
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pig Ear Dog Treatsplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Papayasplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a papayas frescas enteras importadas de MÃ©xico
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Karawan brand Tahiniplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tahini de la marca Karawan
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Backyard Poultryplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brotes de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculados a aves de corral domÃ©sticas
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Raw Tunaplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ Newport vinculado a atÃºn crudo congelado
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melonplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ Carrau vinculado a melÃ³n y sandÃ­a precortados
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                        * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Butterball Brand Ground Turkeyplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pavo molido de marca Butterball
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                        * Actualizaciones de la investigaciÃ³n del brote, por fecha
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Hedgehogsplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a los erizos como mascota
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                        * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                    * Previous Outbreaksplus icon
                      * 2018 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Multidrug-Resistant _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Turkey Productsplus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella multirresistente vinculado a productos de pavo crudo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Tahini from Achdut Ltd., 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tahini elaborado por Achdut Ltd.
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Chicken Products, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Advice to Clinicians
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella multirresistente vinculado a productos de pollo crudo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Recomendaciones para los mÃ©dicos
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a carne molida de res
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Agbeni Infections, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Gravel Ridge Farms Shell Eggs, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pollo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pollo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Hy-Vee Spring Pasta Salad, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella vinculado a la ensalada de pasta âHy-Vee Spring Pasta Saladâ
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kelloggâs Honey Smacks Cereal, 2018plus icon
                          * Salmonella Infections Linked to Kelloggâs Honey Smacks Cereal en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melon, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melon en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Contact with Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Contact with Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Case Count Maps
                        * _Salmonella_ Braenderup Infections Linked to Shell Eggs, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Braenderup Infections Linked to Shell Eggs en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recalls and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Dried Coconut, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Dried Coconut en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall and Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Guinea Pigs, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Guinea Pigs en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Case Count Maps en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Signs & Symptoms en EspaÃ±ol
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken Salad, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken Salad en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kratom, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kratom en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recalls and Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Montevideo Infections Linked to Raw Sprouts, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Sprouts en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut en EspaÃ±ol
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut á» Viá»t Nam [PDF â 3 pages]
                          * Recall and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2017 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Urbana Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Urbana Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Newport & Infantis Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Newport & Infantis Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Anatum Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Anatum Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Turtles, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2017 en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Case Count Maps
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Laboratory Exposure, 2017plus icon
                          * Advice to Students & Employees in Microbiology Laboratories
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry in Backyard Flocksplus icon
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Live Poultry FAQ
                      * 2016 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Contact with Dairy Calves, 2016plus icon
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                        * _Salmonella_ Oranienburg Infections Linked to Shell Eggs, 2016plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Reading and _Salmonella_ Abony Infections linked to Alfalfa Sprouts, 2016plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps 
                          * Epi Curves 
                          * Signs & Symptoms 
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2016plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Live Poultry FAQs
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Montevideo and _Salmonella_ Senftenberg Infections Linked to Wonderful Pistachios, 2016plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts from One Contaminated Seed Lot, 2016plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Virchow Infections Linked to Raw Meal Organic Shake and Meal Products, 2016plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2015 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) Infections Linked to Sprouted Nut Butter Spreads, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2015plus icon
                          * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Advice to Pet Owners en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Signs & Symptoms 
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Poona Infections Linked to Imported Cucumbers, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Multidrug-Resistant _Salmonella_ I 4,[5],12:i:- and _Salmonella_ Infantis Infections Linked to Pork, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Enteritidis Infections Linked to Raw, Frozen, Stuffed Chicken Entrees Produced by Aspen Foods, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Drug-Resistant _Salmonella_ Enteritidis Infections Linked to Raw, Frozen, Stuffed Chicken Entrees Produced by Barber Foods, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2015plus icon
                          * Advice to Backyard Flock Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Raw Tuna, 2015plus icon
                          * Advice to Retailers & Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Crested Geckos, 2015plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2014 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Bean Sprouts, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                          * Final Case Count Maps
                          * Final Epi Curve
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Braenderup Infections Linked to Nut Butter, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human Typhimurium Infections Linked to Laboratory Exposure, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Students & Employees in Labs
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chia Powder, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Frozen Feeder Rodents, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Bearded Dragons, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Tyson Brand Mechanically Separated Chicken, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Institutions
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Stanley Infections Linked to Raw Cashew Cheese, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2013 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Foster Farms Brand Chicken, 2013plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                          * Timeline of Events
                        * _Salmonella_ Mbandaka Infections Linked to Tahini Sesame Paste, 2013plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Saintpaul Infections Linked to Imported Cucumbers, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Chicken, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2013plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2012 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Bredeney Infections Linked to Peanut Butter, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Hedgehogs, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Braenderup Infections Associated with Mangoes, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Typhimurium and Newport Infections Linked to Cantaloupe, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Hadar Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Montevideo Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infantis Infections Linked to Dry Dog Food, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Information for Pet Owners
                          * Information for Veterinarians
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Bareilly and Nchanga Infections Associated with a Raw Scraped Ground Tuna Product, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                          * Timeline of Events
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Outbreaks Diagram
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resource
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Restaurant Chain A, 2012
                      * 2010 through 2011 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Ground Beef
                        * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Kosher Broiled Chicken Livers
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Turkish Pine Nuts
                        * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Ground Turkey
                        * Agona Infections Linked to Whole, Fresh Imported Papayas
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts and Spicy Sprouts
                        * Altona and Johannesburg Infections Linked to Chicks and Ducklings
                        * Typhimurium Infections Associated with Lab Exposure
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to African Dwarf Frogs
                        * Hadar Infections Associated with Turkey Burgers
                        * Panama Infections Linked to Cantaloupe
                        * I 4,[5],12:i:- Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                        * Enteritidis Infections Associated with Shell Eggs
                        * Chester Infections Associated with Cheesy Chicken & Rice Frozen EntrÃ©e
                        * Typhi (Typhoid Fever) Associated with Frozen Mamey Fruit Pulp
                        * Hartford and Baildon Infections Associated with Restaurant Chain A
                        * I 4,[5],12:i:- Linked to Frozen Rodents
                        * Newport Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                        * Montevideo Infections Linked to Red and Black Pepper/Italian-Style Meats
                      * 2006 through 2009 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Saintpaul Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pistachio Nuts
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Peanut Butter
                        * Saintpaul Infections Linked to Raw Produce
                        * Agona Infections Linked to Rice & Wheat Puff Cereal
                        * Litchfield Infections Linked to Cantaloupe
                        * I 4,[5],12:i:- Infections Linked to Pot Pies
                        * Human Schwarzengrund Infections Linked to Dry Pet Food
                        * Wandsworth Infections Linked to Veggie Booty
                        * Tennessee Infections Linked to Peanut Butter
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Tomatoes
                    * For Health Professionals
                    * Surveillanceplus icon
                      * _Salmonella_ Atlasplus icon
                        * 32 Individual Serotypes Reports
                        * Importance of Serotyping
                        * Snapshots of Serotypes
                    * Communication Materials
                    * Reports & Publicationsplus icon
                      * MMWR Articles
                      * References

Related Links

                    * Multistate Foodborne Outbreaks
                    * Zoonotic Diseases (Diseases from Animals)
                    * Foodborne Illness A-Z
                    * Estimates of Foodborne Illness
                    * Report a Foodborne Illness
                    * Foodsafety.govExternal file_external 
                    * U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External file_external 
                    * USDA Food Safety and Inspection ServiceExternal file_external 

Follow Salmonella

![Sign up for RSS feed.](/salmonella/images/outbreaks/rss-icon.png)

Sign up for RSS Feed

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

