Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003903.htm    
                                Description: Cystoscopy is a surgical procedure. This is done to see the inside of the bladder and urethra using a thin lighted tube.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cystoscopy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003903.htm

# Cystoscopy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cystoscopy is a surgical procedure. This is done to see the inside of the
bladder and urethra using a thin lighted tube.

## How the Test is Performed

Cystoscopy is done with a cystoscope. This is a special tube with a small
camera on the end (endoscope). There are two types of cystoscopes:

    * Standard, rigid cystoscope
    * Flexible cystoscope

The tube can be inserted in different ways. However, the test is the same. The
type of cystoscope your health care provider will use depends on the purpose
of the exam.

The procedure will take about 5 to 20 minutes. The urethra is cleansed. A
numbing medicine is applied to the skin lining the inside of the urethra. This
is done without needles. The scope is then inserted through the urethra into
the bladder.

Water or salt water (saline) flows through the tube to fill the bladder. As
this occurs, you may be asked to describe the feeling. Your answer will give
some information about your condition.

As fluid fills the bladder, it stretches the bladder wall. This lets your
provider see the entire bladder wall. You will feel the need to urinate when
the bladder is full. However, the bladder must stay full until the exam is
finished.

If any tissue looks abnormal, a small sample can be taken (biopsy) through the
tube. This sample will be sent to a lab to be tested.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Ask your provider if you should stop taking any medicines that could thin your
blood.

The procedure may be done in a hospital or surgery center. In that case, you
will need to have someone take you home afterward.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel slight discomfort when the tube is passed through the urethra
into the bladder. You will feel an uncomfortable, strong need to urinate when
your bladder is full.

You may feel a quick pinch if a biopsy is taken. After the tube is removed,
the urethra may be sore. You may have blood in the urine and a burning
sensation during urination for a day or two.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is done to:

    * Check for cancer of the bladder or urethra
    * Diagnose the cause of blood in the urine
    * Diagnose the cause of problems passing urine
    * Diagnose the cause of repeated bladder infections
    * Help determine the cause of pain during urination

## Normal Results

The bladder wall should look smooth. The bladder should be of normal size,
shape, and position. There should be no blockages, growths, or stones.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

The abnormal results could indicate:

    * Bladder cancer
    * Bladder stones (calculi)
    * Bladder wall decompression
    * Chronic urethritis or cystitis
    * Scarring of the urethra (called a stricture)
    * Congenital (present at birth) abnormality
    * Cysts
    * Diverticula of the bladder or urethra
    * Foreign material in the bladder or urethra 

Some other possible diagnoses may be:

    * Irritable bladder
    * Polyps
    * Prostate problems, such as bleeding, enlargement, or blockage
    * Traumatic injury of the bladder and urethra
    * Ulcer
    * Urethral strictures

## Risks

There is a slight risk for excess bleeding when a biopsy is taken.

Other risks include:

    * Bladder infection
    * Rupture of the bladder wall

## Considerations

Drink 4 to 6 glasses of water per day after the procedure.

You may notice a small amount of blood in your urine after this procedure. If
the bleeding continues after you urinate 3 times, contact your provider.

Contact your provider if you develop any of these signs of infection:

    * Chills
    * Fever
    * Pain
    * Reduced urine output 

## Alternative Names

Cystourethroscopy; Endoscopy of the bladder

## Images

    * ![Cystoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1089t.jpg)Cystoscopy

## References

Duty BD, Conlin MJ. Principles of urologic endoscopy. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi
LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 7.

National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases website.
Cystoscopy and ureteroscopy. www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/health-
topics/diagnostic-tests/cystoscopy-ureteroscopy. Updated June 2015. Accessed
June 14, 2018.

Smith TG, Coburn M. Urologic surgery. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers
BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 72.

## Review Date 5/31/2018

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bladder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BladderCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bladder
Cancer _Read more_

![Bladder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BladderCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bladder
Diseases _Read more_

![Endoscopy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Endoscopy_thumb.jpg)Endoscopy
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

