Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003138.htm    
                                Description: Blood in your urine is called hematuria. The amount may be very small and only detected with urine tests or under a microscope. In other cases, the blood is visible. It often turns the toilet water red    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urine - bloody

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003138.htm

# Urine - bloody

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Blood in your urine is called hematuria. The amount may be very small and only
detected with urine tests or under a microscope. In other cases, the blood is
visible. It often turns the toilet water red or pink. Or, you may see spots of
blood in the water after urinating.

## Causes

There are many possible causes of blood in the urine.

Bloody urine may be due to a problem in your kidneys or other parts of the
urinary tract, such as:

    * Cancer of the bladder or kidney
    * Infection of the bladder, kidney, prostate, or urethra
    * Inflammation of the bladder, urethra, prostate, or kidney (glomerulonephritis)
    * Injury to the bladder or kidney
    * Kidney or bladder stones
    * Kidney disease after strep throat (post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis), a common cause of blood in the urine in children
    * Kidney failure
    * Polycystic kidney disease
    * Recent urinary tract procedure such as catheterization, circumcision, surgery, or kidney biopsy

If there is no structural or anatomical problem with your kidneys, urinary
tract, prostate, or genitals, your doctor may check to see if you have a
bleeding disorder. Causes may include:

    * Bleeding disorders (such as hemophilia)
    * Blood clot in the kidneys
    * Blood thinning medicines (such as aspirin or warfarin)
    * Sickle cell disease
    * Thrombocytopenia (low numbers of platelets) 

Blood that looks like it is in the urine may actually be coming from other
sources, such as:

    * The vagina (in women)
    * Ejaculation, often due to a prostate problem (in men)
    * A bowel movement 

The urine can also turn a red color from certain drugs, beets, or other foods.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

You may not see blood in your urine because it is a small amount and is
microscopic. Your health care provider may find it while checking your urine
during a routine exam.

Never ignore blood you see in the urine. Get checked by your provider,
especially if you also have:

    * Discomfort with urination
    * Frequent urination
    * Unexplained weight loss
    * Urgent urination

Call your provider right away if:

    * You have fever, nausea, vomiting, shaking chills, or pain in your abdomen, side, or back
    * You are unable to urinate
    * You are passing blood clots in your urine 

Also call if:

    * You have pain with sexual intercourse or heavy menstrual bleeding. This may be due to a problem related to your reproductive system.
    * You have urine dribbling, nighttime urination, or difficulty starting your urine flow. This may be from a prostate problem. 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions such as:

    * When did you first notice blood in your urine? Has the amount of your urine increased or decreased?
    * What is the color of your urine? Does your urine have an odor?
    * Do you have any pain with urination or other symptoms of infection?
    * Are you urinating more often, or is the need to urinate more urgent?
    * What medicines are you taking? 
    * Have you had urinary or kidney problems in the past, or recently had surgery or an injury? 
    * Have you recently eaten foods that may cause a change in color, like beets, berries, or rhubarb?

Tests that may be done include:

    * Abdominal ultrasound
    * Antinuclear antibody test for lupus
    * Blood creatinine level
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * CT scan of the abdomen
    * Cystoscopy
    * Kidney biopsy
    * Strep test
    * Tests for sickle cell, bleeding problems, and other blood disorders
    * Urinalysis
    * Urinary cytology
    * Urine culture
    * 24-hour urine collection for creatinine, protein, calcium
    * Blood tests such as PT, PTT or INR tests

The treatment will depend on the cause of blood in the urine.

## Alternative Names

Hematuria; Blood in the urine

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract

## References

Boorjian SA, Raman JD, Barocas DA. Evaluation and management of hematuria. In:
Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_.
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 9.

Brown DD, Reidy KJ. Approach to the child with hematuria. _Pediatr Clin North
Am_. 2019;66(1):15-30. PMID: 30454740 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30454740.

Landry DW, Bazari H. Approach to the patient with renal disease. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 106.

## Review Date 7/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bladder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BladderCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bladder
Cancer _Read more_

![Bladder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BladderCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bladder
Diseases _Read more_

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Bleeding _Read
more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

