Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007069.htm    
                                Description: A digital rectal exam is an examination of the lower rectum. The health care provider uses a gloved, lubricated finger to check for any abnormal findings.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Digital rectal exam

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007069.htm

# Digital rectal exam

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A digital rectal exam is an examination of the lower rectum. The health care
provider uses a gloved, lubricated finger to check for any abnormal findings.

## How the Test is Performed

The provider will first look at the outside of the anus for hemorrhoids or
fissures. Then the provider will put on a glove and insert a lubricated finger
into the rectum. In women, this exam may be done at the same time as a pelvic
exam.

## How to Prepare for the Test

For the test, the provider will ask you to:

    * Try to relax
    * Take a deep breath during the insertion of the finger into your rectum 

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel mild discomfort during this test.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is performed for many reasons. It may be done:

    * As part of a routine yearly physical exam in both men and women
    * When your provider suspects you are bleeding somewhere in your digestive tract
    * When men are having symptoms that suggest the prostate is enlarged or you may have a prostate infection 

In men, the test can be used to check the size of the prostate and to look for
abnormal bumps or other changes of the prostate gland.

A digital rectal exam may be done to collect stool for testing for fecal
occult (hidden) blood as part of screening for cancer of the rectum or colon.

## Normal Results

A normal finding means the provider did not detect any problem during the
exam. However, this test does not rule out all problems.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result may be due to:

    * A prostate problem, such as an enlarged prostate gland, prostate infection, or prostate cancer
    * Bleeding anywhere in the digestive tract
    * Cancer of the rectum or colon
    * Small split or tear in the thin moist tissue lining of the anus (called anal fissure)
    * An abscess, when pus collects in the area of the anus and rectum 
    * Hemorrhoids, swollen veins in the anus or lower part of the rectum

## Alternative Names

DRE

## Images

    * ![Prostate cancer](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10054t.jpg)Prostate cancer

## References

Abdelnaby A, Downs MJ. Diseases of the anorectum. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 129.

Loeb S, Eastham JA. Diagnosis and staging of prostate cancer. In: Wein AJ,
Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 111.

## Review Date 10/8/2017

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Doctor](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnalDisordersAndAnalCancer_thumb.jpg)Anal
Disorders _Read more_

![Enlarged Prostate
\(BPH\)](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EnlargedProstate\(BPH\)_thumb.jpg)Enlarged
Prostate (BPH) _Read more_

![Prostate
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ProstateCancer_thumb.jpg)Prostate
Cancer _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

