Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003582.htm    
                                Description: The RBC urine test measures the number of red blood cells in a urine sample.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

RBC urine test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003582.htm

# RBC urine test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The RBC urine test measures the number of red blood cells in a urine sample.

## How the Test is Performed

A random sample of urine is collected. Random means that the sample is
collected at any time either at the lab or at home. If needed, the health care
provider may ask you to collect your urine at home over 24 hours. Your
provider will tell you how to do this.

A clean-catch urine sample is needed. The clean-catch method is used to
prevent germs from the penis or vagina from getting into a urine sample. To
collect your urine, the provider may give you a special clean-catch kit that
contains a cleansing solution and sterile wipes. Follow instructions exactly
so that the results are accurate.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is necessary for this test.

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal urination. There is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done as part of a urinalysis test.

## Normal Results

A normal result is 4 red blood cells per high power field (RBC/HPF) or less
when the sample is examined under a microscope.

The example above is a common measurement for a result of this test. Normal
value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs use
different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider about
the meaning of your specific test result.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A higher than normal number of RBCs in the urine may be due to:

    * Bladder, kidney, or urinary tract cancer 
    * Kidney and other urinary tract problems, such as infection, or stones
    * Kidney injury
    * Prostate problems

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Alternative Names

Red blood cells in urine; Hematuria test; Urine - red blood cells

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract

## References

Krishnan A, Levin A. Laboratory assessment of kidney disease: glomerular
filtration rate, urinalysis, and proteinuria. In: Yu ASL, Chertow GM, Luyckx
VA, Marsden PA, Skorecki K, Taal MW, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_.
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 23.

Lamb EJ, Jones GRD. Kidney function tests. In: Rifai N, ed. _Tietz Textbook of
Clinical Chemistry and Molecular Diagnostics_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier;
2018:chap 32.

Riley RS, McPherson RA. Basic examination of urine. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 28.

## Review Date 7/4/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Enlarged Prostate
\(BPH\)](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EnlargedProstate\(BPH\)_thumb.jpg)Enlarged
Prostate (BPH) _Read more_

![Kidney Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyCancer_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Cancer _Read more_

![Kidney Stones](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyStones2_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Stones _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

