Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007355.htm    
                                Description: A pelvis MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) scan is an imaging test that uses a machine with powerful magnets and radio waves to create pictures of the area between the hip bones. This part of the body is    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pelvis MRI scan

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007355.htm

# Pelvis MRI scan

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A pelvis MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) scan is an imaging test that uses a
machine with powerful magnets and radio waves to create pictures of the area
between the hip bones. This part of the body is called the pelvic area.

Structures inside and near the pelvis include the bladder, prostate and other
male reproductive organs, female reproductive organs, lymph nodes, large
bowel, small bowel, and pelvic bones.

An MRI does not use radiation. Single MRI images are called slices. The images
are stored on a computer or printed on film. One exam produces dozens or
sometimes hundreds of images.

## How the Test is Performed

You may be asked to wear a hospital gown or clothing without metal fasteners.
Certain types of metal can cause inaccurate images.

You lie on your back on a narrow table. The table slides into the middle of
the MRI machine.

Small devices, called coils, may be placed around your hip area. These devices
help send and receive the radio waves. They also improve the quality of the
images. If pictures of the prostate and rectum are needed, a small coil may be
placed into your rectum. This coil must stay in place for about 30 minutes
while the images are taken.

Some exams require a special dye, called contrast media. The dye is most often
given before the test through a vein (IV) in your hand or forearm. The dye
helps the radiologist see certain areas more clearly.

During the MRI, the person who operates the machine will watch you from
another room. The testÂ typically lasts 30 to 60 minutes, but may take longer.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You may be asked not to eat or drink anything for 4 to 6 hours before the
scan.

Tell your health care provider if you are afraid of close spaces (have
claustrophobia). You may be given a medicine to help you relax and be less
anxious. Or, your provider may suggest an open MRI, in which the machine is
not as close to the body.

Before the test, tell your provider if you have:

    * Brain aneurysm clips
    * Artificial heart valves
    * Heart defibrillator or pacemaker
    * Inner ear (cochlear) implants
    * Kidney disease or dialysis (you may not be able to receive contrast)
    * Recently placed artificial joints
    * Vascular stents
    * Pain pumps
    * Worked with sheet metal in the past (you may need tests to check for metal pieces in your eyes) 

Because the MRI contains strong magnets, metal objects are not allowed into
the room with the MRI scanner:

    * Pens, pocket knives, and eyeglasses may fly across the room.
    * Items such as jewelry, watches, credit cards, and hearing aids can be damaged.
    * Pins, hairpins, metal zippers, and similar metallic items can distort the images.
    * Removable dental work should be taken out just before the scan. 

## How the Test will Feel

An MRI exam causes no pain. If you have difficulty lying still or are very
nervous, you may be given a medicine to relax you. Too much movement can blur
MRI images and cause errors.

The table may be hard or cold, but you can request a blanket or pillow. The
machine produces loud thumping and humming noises when turned on. You can wear
ear plugs to help reduce the noise.

An intercom in the room allows you to speak to someone at any time. Some MRIs
have televisions and special headphones that you can use to help the time
pass.

There is no recovery time, unless you were given a medicine to relax. After an
MRI scan, you can resume your normal diet, activity, and medicines.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test may be done if a female has any of the following signs or symptoms:

    * Abnormal vaginal bleeding
    * A mass in the pelvis (felt during a pelvic exam or seen on another imaging test)
    * Fibroids
    * A pelvic mass that occurs during pregnancy
    * Endometriosis (usually only done after ultrasound)
    * Pain in the lower belly (abdominal) area
    * Unexplained infertility (usually only done after ultrasound)
    * Unexplained pelvic pain (usually only done after ultrasound) 

This test may be done if a male has any of the following signs or symptoms:

    * Lumps or swelling in the testicles or scrotum
    * Undescended testicle (unable to be seen using ultrasound)
    * Unexplained pelvic or lower abdominal pain
    * Unexplained urination problems, including trouble starting or stopping urinating 

A pelvic MRI may be done in both males and females who have:

    * Abnormal findings on an x-ray of the pelvis
    * Birth defects of the hips
    * Injury or trauma to the hip area
    * Unexplained hip pain 

A pelvic MRI is also often done to see if certain cancers have spread to other
areas of the body. This is called staging. Staging helps guide future
treatment and follow-up. It gives you some idea of what to expect in the
future. A pelvic MRI may be used to help stage cervical, uterine, bladder,
rectal, prostate, and testicular cancers.

## Normal Results

A normal result means your pelvic area appears normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results in a woman may be due to:

    * Adenomyosis of the uterus
    * Bladder cancer
    * Cervical cancer
    * Colorectal cancer
    * Congenital defect of the reproductive organs
    * Endometrial cancer
    * Endometriosis
    * Ovarian cancer
    * Ovarian growths
    * Problem with the structure of the reproductive organs, such as the fallopian tubes
    * Uterine fibroids

Abnormal results in a man may be due to:

    * Bladder cancer
    * Colorectal cancer
    * Prostate cancer
    * Testicular cancer

Abnormal results in both males and females may be due to:

    * Avascular necrosis of the hip
    * Birth defects of the hip joint
    * Bone tumor
    * Hip fracture
    * Osteoarthritis
    * Osteomyelitis

Talk to your provider if you have questions and concerns.

## Risks

MRI contains no radiation. To date, no side effects from the magnetic fields
and radio waves have been reported.

The most common type of contrast (dye) used is gadolinium. It is very safe.
Allergic reactions to the substance rarely occur. But gadolinium can be
harmful to people with kidney problems who require dialysis. If you have
kidney problems, tell your provider before the test.

The strong magnetic fields created during an MRI can interfere with pacemakers
and other implants. People with most cardiac pacemakers cannot have an MRI and
should not enter an MRI area. Some newer pacemakers are made that are safe
with MRI. You will need to confirm with your provider if your pacemaker is
safe in an MRI.

## Considerations

Tests that may be done instead of a pelvic MRI include:

    * CT scan of the pelvic area
    * Vaginal ultrasound (in women)
    * X-ray of the pelvic area 

A CT scan may be done in emergency cases, since it is faster and most often
available in the emergency room.

## Alternative Names

MRI - pelvis; Pelvic MRI with prostate probe; Magnetic resonance imaging -
pelvis

## References

Azad N, Myzak MC. Neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy for colorectal cancer. In:
Cameron JL, Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:249-254.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) - diagnostic. In:
Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_.
6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:754-757.

Ferri FF. Diagnostic imaging. In: Ferri FF, ed. _Ferri's Best Test_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:1-128.

Kwak ES, Laifer-Narin SL, Hecht EM. Imaging of the female pelvis. In: Torigian
DA, Ramchandani P, eds. _Radiology Secrets Plus_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 38.

Roth CG, Deshmukh S. MRI of the uterus, cervix, and vagina. In: Roth CG,
Deshmukh S, eds. _Fundamentals of Body MRI_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 9.

## Review Date 12/23/2018

Updated by: Jason Levy, MD, Northside Radiology Associates, Atlanta, GA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bladder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BladderCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bladder
Cancer _Read more_

![Cervical
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CervicalCancer2_thumb.jpg)Cervical
Cancer _Read more_

![Colorectal
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColorectalCancer_thumb.jpg)Colorectal
Cancer _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

