Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000162.htm    
                                Description: You had a procedure called brachytherapy to treat prostate cancer. Your treatment lasted 30 minutes or more, depending on the type of treatment you had.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Prostate brachytherapy - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000162.htm

# Prostate brachytherapy - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had a procedure called brachytherapy to treat prostate cancer. Your
treatment lasted 30 minutes or more, depending on the type of treatment you
had.

Before your treatment started, you were given medicine to block pain.

Your doctor placed an ultrasound probe into your rectum. You probably may have
also had a Foley catheter (tube) in your bladder to drain urine. Your doctor
used CT scans or ultrasound to view the area to be treated.

Needles or special applicators were then used to place the metal pellets into
your prostate. The pellets deliver radiation into your prostate. They were
inserted through your perineum (the area between the scrotum and the anus).

## What to Expect at Home

Some blood in your urine or semen can be expected for a few days. You may need
to use a urinary catheter for 1 or 2 days if you have a lot of blood in your
urine. Your health care provider will show you how to use it. You may also
feel the urge to urinate more often. Your perineum may be tender and bruised.
You can use ice packs and take pain medicine to ease discomfort.

If you have a permanent implant, you may need to limit the amount of time you
spend around children and pregnant women for a while.

## Activity

Take it easy when you return home. Mix light activity with periods of rest to
help speed your recovery.

Avoid heavy activity (such as housework, yard work, and lifting children) for
at least 1 week. You should be able to return to your normal activities after
that. You can resume sexual activity when you feel comfortable.

If you have a permanent implant, ask your provider if you need to limit your
activities. You will probably need to avoid sexual activity for about 2 weeks,
and then use a condom for several weeks after that.

Try not to let children sit on your lap in the first few months after
treatment because of possible radiation from the area.

## Self-care

Apply ice packs to the area for 20 minutes at a time to reduce pain and
swelling. Wrap ice in a cloth or towel. DO NOT put the ice directly on your
skin.

Take your pain medicine as your doctor told you to.

You may go back to your regular diet when you get home. Drink 8 to 10 glasses
of water or unsweetened juice a day and choose healthy foods. Avoid alcohol
for the first week.

You may shower and gently wash the perineum with a washcloth. Pat dry the
tender areas. DO NOT soak in a bath tub, hot tub, or go swimming for 1 week.

## Follow-up

You may need to have follow up visits with your provider for more treatment or
imaging tests.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your health care provider if you have:

    * Fever greater than 101Â°F (38.3Â°C) and chills
    * Severe pain in your rectum when you urinate or at other times
    * Blood or blood clots in your urine
    * Bleeding from your rectum
    * Problems having a bowel movement or passing urine
    * Shortness of breath
    * Severe discomfort in the treatment area that does not go away with pain medicine
    * Drainage from the place the catheter was inserted
    * Chest pain
    * Abdominal (belly) discomfort
    * Severe nausea or vomiting
    * Any new or unusual symptoms 

## Alternative Names

Implant therapy - prostate cancer - discharge; Radioactive seed placement -
discharge

## References

D'Amico AV, Nguyen PL, Crook JM, et al. Radiation therapy for prostate cancer.
In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_.
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 116.

Nelson WG, Antonarakis ES, Carter HB, De Marzo AM, DeWeese TL. Prostate
cancer. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Kastan MB, Doroshow JH, Tepper JE,
eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 81.

## Read More

    * Prostate brachytherapy 
    * Prostate cancer
    * Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) blood test
    * Radical prostatectomy

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Prostate Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

