Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000399.htm    
                                Description: You had radiation therapy to treat prostate cancer. This article tells you how to care for yourself after treatment.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Prostate radiation - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000399.htm

# Prostate radiation - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had radiation therapy to treat prostate cancer. This article tells you how
to care for yourself after treatment.

## What to Expect at Home

Your body undergoes many changes when you have radiation treatment for cancer.

You may have the following side effects about 2 to 3 weeks after your first
radiation treatment:

    * **Skin problems.** The skin over the treated area may turn red, start to peel, or itch. This is rare.
    *  **Bladder discomfort.** You may have to urinate often. It may burn when you urinate. The urge to urinate may be present for a long time. Rarely, you may have loss of bladder control. You may see some blood in your urine. You should call your health care provider if that happens. In most cases, these symptoms often go away over time, but some people may have flare-ups for years afterwards.
    *  **Diarrhea and cramping in your belly, or a sudden need to empty your bowels.** These symptoms can last for the duration of therapy. They often go away over time, but some people may have diarrhea flare-ups for years afterwards. 

Other effects that develop later may include:

    *  **Problems keeping or getting an erection** may occur after prostate radiation therapy. You may not notice this problem until months or even a year or more after therapy is finished.
    *  **Urinary incontinence.** You may not develop or notice this problem for several months or years after radiation complete.
    *  **Urethral stricture**. Narrowing or scarring of the tube that allows the urine to pass out of the bladder may occur. 

## Skin Care

A provider will draw colored markings on your skin when you have radiation
treatment. These markings show where to aim the radiation and must stay in
place until your treatments are finished. If the marks come off, tell your
provider. DO NOT try to redraw them yourself.

To take care of the treatment area:

    * Wash gently with lukewarm water only. DO NOT scrub. Pat your skin dry.
    * Ask your provider what soaps, lotions, or ointments are ok to use.
    * DO NOT scratch or rub your skin. 

## Self-care

Drink plenty of liquids. Try to get 8 to 10 glasses of fluids a day. Avoid
caffeine, alcohol, and citrus juices such as orange or grapefruit juice if
they make the bowel or bladder symptoms worse.

You can take over-the-counter diarrhea medicine to treat loose stools.

Your provider may place you on a low-residue diet that limits the amount of
fiber you eat. You need to eat enough protein and calories to keep your weight
up.

Some people who get prostate radiation treatment may begin to feel tired
during the time you are having treatments. If you feel tired:

    * DO NOT try to do too much in a day. You may not be able to do everything you are used to doing.
    * Try to get more sleep at night. Rest during the day when you can.
    * Take a few weeks off work or cut back on how much you work. 

## Intimacy

It is normal to have less interest in sex during and right after radiation
treatments end. Your interest in sex is likely to come back after your
treatment is over and your life starts to return to normal.

You should be able to enjoy sex safely after radiation treatment is over.

Problems with having an erection are often not seen right away. They may show
up or be seen after a year or more.

## Follow-up Care

Your provider may check your blood counts regularly, especially if the
radiation treatment area on your body is large. At first, you will have PSA
blood tests will be checked every 3 to 6 months to check the success of the
radiation treatment.

## Alternative Names

Radiation - pelvis - discharge

## References

D'Amico AV, Nguyen PL, Crook JM, et al. Radiation therapy for prostate cancer.
In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_.
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 116.

National Cancer Institute website. Prostate Cancer Treatment (PDQ) - patient
version. www.cancer.gov/types/prostate/patient/prostate-treatment-pdq. Updated
June 12, 2019. Accessed August 24, 2019.

Zeman EM, Schreiber EC, Tepper JE. Basics of radiation therapy. In:
Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Kastan MB, Doroshow JH, Tepper JE, eds.
_Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap
27.

## Review Date 7/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Prostate Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

