Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007362.htm    
                                Description: A computed tomography (CT) scan of the pelvis is an imaging method that uses x-rays to create cross-sectional pictures of the area between the hip bones. This part of the body is called the pelvic area.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pelvic CT scan

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007362.htm

# Pelvic CT scan

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A computed tomography (CT) scan of the pelvis is an imaging method that uses
x-rays to create cross-sectional pictures of the area between the hip bones.
This part of the body is called the pelvic area.

Structures inside and near the pelvis include the bladder, prostate and other
male reproductive organs, female reproductive organs, lymph nodes, and pelvic
bones.

Single CT images are called slices. The images are stored on a computer,
viewed on a monitor, or printed on film. Three-dimensional models of the body
area can be created by stacking the slices together.

## How the Test is Performed

You are asked to lie on a narrow table that slides into the center of the CT
scanner.

Once you are inside the scanner, the machine's x-ray beam rotates around you.
You will not see the rotating x-ray beams.

You must be still during the exam, because movement causes blurred images. You
may be told to hold your breath for short periods of time.

The scan should take less than 30 minutes.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Certain exams require a special dye. It is called contrast media. It has to be
delivered into the body before the test starts. The contrast helps certain
areas show up better on the x-rays.

    * Contrast can be given through a vein (IV) in your hand or forearm. Or you may be asked to drink a liquid form of contrast. If contrast is used, you may also be asked not to eat or drink anything for 4 to 6 hours before the test.
    * Let your health care provider know if you have ever had a reaction to contrast. You may need to take medicines before the test in order to safely receive this substance.
    * Before receiving the contrast, tell your provider if you take the diabetes medicine metformin (Glucophage) because you may need to take extra precautions. 

Before receiving the contrast, tell your provider if you have kidney problems.
You may not be able to get IV contrast if this is the case.

If you weigh more than 300 pounds (136 kilograms), find out if the CT machine
has a weight limit. Too much weight can damage the scanner's working parts.

You will be asked to remove jewelry and wear a hospital gown during the study.

You may be asked to drink an oral contrast solution.

## How the Test will Feel

Some people may have discomfort from lying on the hard table.

Contrast given through an IV may cause:

    * Slight burning sensation
    * Metallic taste in the mouth
    * Warm flushing of the body

These sensations are normal and most often go away within a few seconds.

## Why the Test is Performed

CT rapidly creates detailed pictures of the body, including the pelvis and
areas near the pelvis. The test may be used to diagnose or detect:

    * Masses or tumors, including cancer
    * The cause of pelvic pain
    * Injury to the pelvis

This test may also help:

    * Guide a surgeon to the right area during a biopsy or other procedures
    * Your provider plan for surgery
    * Plan radiation treatment for cancer

## Normal Results

Results are considered normal if the organs of the pelvis that are being
examined are normal in appearance.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

    * Abscess (collection of pus)
    * Bladder stones
    * Broken bone
    * Cancer
    * Diverticulitis

## Risks

Risks of CT scans include:

    * Being exposed to radiation
    * Allergic reaction to contrast dye 

CT scans do expose you to more radiation than regular x-rays. Having many
x-rays or CT scans over time may increase your risk of cancer. But the risk
from any one scan is small. You and your provider should weigh this risk
against the benefits of getting a correct diagnosis for a medical problem.

Some people have allergies to contrast dye. Let your provider know if you have
ever had an allergic reaction to injected contrast dye.

    * The most common type of contrast given into a vein contains iodine. If a person with an iodine allergy is given this type of contrast, nausea or vomiting, sneezing, itching, or hives may occur.
    * If you absolutely must be given such contrast, you may be given antihistamines (such as Benadryl) or steroids before the test.
    * The kidneys help remove iodine out of the body. Those with kidney disease or diabetes may need to receive extra fluids after the test to help flush the iodine out of the body. 

In rare cases, the dye causes a life-threatening allergic response called
anaphylaxis. If you have any trouble breathing during the test, you should
tell the scanner operator right away. Scanners come with an intercom and
speakers, so the operator can hear you at all times.

## Alternative Names

CAT scan - pelvis; Computed axial tomography scan - pelvis; Computed
tomography scan - pelvis; CT scan - pelvis

## References

Bishoff JT, Rastinehad AR. Urinary tract imaging: basic principles of computed
tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and plain film. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi
LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 2.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Computed tomography of the body (spiral [helical],
electron beam [EBCT, ultrafast], high resolution [HRCT], 64-slice
multidetector [MDCT]). In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and
Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2013:375-376.

Herring W. Recognizing the normal abdomen and pelvis on computed tomography.
In: Herring W, ed. _Learning Radiology_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 15.

Nicholas JR, Puskarich MA. Abdominal trauma. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 39.

## Review Date 12/23/2018

Updated by: Jason Levy, MD, Northside Radiology Associates, Atlanta, GA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Doctor](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnalDisordersAndAnalCancer_thumb.jpg)Anal
Cancer _Read more_

![Bladder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BladderCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bladder
Cancer _Read more_

![Bladder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BladderCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bladder
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

