Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000920.htm    
                                Description: Prostate cancer is diagnosed after a biopsy. One or more tissue samples are taken from the prostate and examined under the microscope.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gleason grading system

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000920.htm

# Gleason grading system

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Prostate cancer is diagnosed after a biopsy. One or more tissue samples are
taken from the prostate and examined under the microscope.

The Gleason grading system refers to how abnormal your prostate cancer cells
look and how likely the cancer is to advance and spread. A lower Gleason grade
means that the cancer is slower growing and not aggressive.

## Gleason Score

The first step in determining the Gleason grade is to determine the Gleason
score.

    1. When looking at cells under the microscope, the doctor assigns a number (or grade) to the prostate cancer cells between 1 and 5.
    2. This grade is based on how abnormal the cells appear. Grade 1 means that the cells look almost like normal prostate cells. Grade 5 means that the cells look very different from normal prostate cells.
    3. Most prostate cancers contain cells that are different grades. So the two most common grades are used.
    4. The Gleason score is determined by adding the two most common grades. For example, the most common grade of the cells in a tissue sample may be grade 3 cells, followed by grade 4 cells. The Gleason score for this sample would be 7.

Higher numbers indicate a faster growing cancer that is more likely to spread.

Currently the lowest score assigned to a tumor is grade 6. Scores below a 6
show normal to near normal cells. Most cancers have a Gleason score of between
5 and 7.

## Gleason Grading System

Sometimes, it can be hard to predict how well people will do based just on
their Gleason scores alone.

    * For example, your tumor may be assigned a Gleason score of 7 if the two most common grades were 3 and 4.The 7 may come either from adding 3 + 4 or from adding 4 + 3.
    * Overall, someone with a Gleason score of 7 that comes from adding 3 + 4 is felt to have a less aggressive cancer than someone with a Gleason score of 7 that comes from adding 4 + 3. That is because the person with a 4 + 3 =7 grade has more grade 4 cells than grade 3 cells. Grade 4 cells are more abnormal and more likely to spread than grade 3 cells. 

A new 5 Grade Group System has recently been created. This system is a better
way to describe how a cancer will behave and respond to treatment.

    * Grade group 1: Gleason score 6 or lower (low-grade cancer)
    * Grade group 2: Gleason score 3 + 4 = 7 (medium-grade cancer)
    * Grade group 3: Gleason score 4 + 3 = 7 (medium-grade cancer)
    * Grade group 4: Gleason score 8 (high-grade cancer)
    * Grade group 5: Gleason score 9 to 10 (high-grade cancer) 

A lower group indicates a better chance for successful treatment than a higher
group. A higher group means that more of the cancer cells look different from
normal cells. A higher group also means that it is more likely that the tumor
will spread aggressively.

Grading helps you and your doctor determine your treatment options, along
with:

    * Stage of the cancer, which shows how much the cancer has spread
    * PSA test result
    * Your overall health
    * Your desire to have surgery, radiation, or hormone medicines, or no treatment at all 

## Alternative Names

Prostate cancer - Gleason; Adenocarcinoma prostate - Gleason; Gleason score;
Prostate cancer - 5 grade group

## References

Epstein JI. Pathology of prostatic neoplasia. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin
AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 110.

Epstein JI, Zelefsky MJ, Sjoberg DD, et al. A contemporary prostate cancer
grading system: a validated alternative to the Gleason score. _Eur Urol_.
2016;69(3):428-435. PMID: 26166626 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26166626.

Gordetsky J, Epstein J. Grading of prostatic adenocarcinoma: current state and
prognostic implications. _Diagn Pathol_. 2016;11:25. PMID: 26956509
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26956509.

## Review Date 5/31/2018

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Prostate Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

