Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000380.htm    
                                Description: Prostate cancer is cancer that starts in the prostate gland. The prostate is a small, walnut-shaped structure that makes up part of a man    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Prostate cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000380.htm

# Prostate cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Prostate cancer is cancer that starts in the prostate gland. The prostate is a
small, walnut-shaped structure that makes up part of a man's reproductive
system. It wraps around the urethra, the tube that carries urine out of the
body.

![Prostate cancer](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18038.jpg)

## Causes

Prostate cancer is the most common cause of death from cancer in men over age
75. Prostate cancer is rarely found in men younger than 40.

People who are at high risk include:

    * African American men, who are also more likely to develop this cancer at every age
    * Men above age 60 years
    * Men who have a father or brother with prostate cancer 

Other people at risk include:

    * Men who have been around Agent Orange
    * Men who eat a diet high in fat, especially animal fat
    * Obese men

Prostate cancer is less common in people who do not eat meat (vegetarians).

A common problem in almost all men as they grow older is an enlarged prostate.
This is called benign prostatic hyperplasia, or BPH. It does not raise your
risk of prostate cancer. But, it can increase your prostate-specific antigen
(PSA) blood test result.

## Symptoms

With early prostate cancer, there are often no symptoms.

The PSA blood test may done to screen men for prostate cancer. Often, PSA
level rises before there are any symptoms.

The symptoms listed below can occur with prostate cancer as it grows larger in
the prostate. These symptoms can also be caused by other prostate problems:

    * Delayed or slowed start of urinary stream
    * Dribbling or leakage of urine, most often after urinating
    * Slow urinary stream
    * Straining when urinating, or not being able to empty all of the urine
    * Blood in the urine or semen

When the cancer has spread, there may be bone pain or tenderness, most often
in the lower back and pelvic bones.

## Exams and Tests

An abnormal digital rectal exam may be the only sign of prostate cancer.

A biopsy is needed to tell if you have prostate cancer. A biopsy is a
procedure to removeÂ a sample of tissue from the prostate. The sample is sent
to a lab for examination. It will be done in your doctor's office.

Your doctor may recommend a biopsy if:

    * You have a high PSA level
    * A digital rectal exam reveals a hard or uneven surface 

The biopsy result is reported using what is called a Gleason grade and a
Gleason score.

The Gleason grade tells you how fast the cancer might spread. It grades tumors
on a scale of 1 through 5. You may have different grades of cancer in one
biopsy sample. The two most common grades are added together. This gives you
the Gleason score. The higher your Gleason score, the more likely the cancer
can spread beyond the prostate:

    * Scores 2 through 6: Low-grade prostate cancer.
    * Score 7: Intermediate- (or in the middle) grade cancer. Most prostate cancers fall into this group.
    * Scores 8 through 10: High-grade cancer. 

Another grading system, the 5 Grade Group System does a better job of
describing how a cancer will behave and respond to treatment:

    * Grade group 1: Gleason score 6 or lower (low-grade cancer)
    * Grade group 2: Gleason score 3 + 4 = 7 (medium-grade cancer)
    * Grade group 3: Gleason score 4 + 3 = 7 (medium-grade cancer)
    * Grade group 4: Gleason score 8 (high-grade cancer)
    * Grade group 5: Gleason score 9 to 10 (high-grade cancer)

A lower group indicates a better chance for successful treatment than a higher
group. A higher group means that more of the cancer cells look different from
normal cells. A higher group also means that it is more likely that the tumor
will spread aggressively.

The following tests may be done to determine whether the cancer has spread:

    * CT scan
    * Bone scan
    * MRI scan

The PSA blood test will also be used to monitor your cancer after treatment.

## Treatment

Treatment depends on many things, including your Gleason score and your
overall health. Your doctor will discuss your treatment options with you.

If the cancer has not spread outside the prostate gland, common treatments
include:

    * Surgery (radical prostatectomy)
    * Radiation therapy, including brachytherapy and proton therapy

If you are older, your doctor may recommend simply monitoring the cancer with
PSA tests and biopsies.

Hormone therapy is mainly used for cancer that has spread beyond the prostate.
It helps relieve symptoms and prevents further growth and spread of the
cancer. But it does not cure the cancer.

If prostate cancer spreads even after hormone therapy, surgery, or radiation
has been tried, treatment may include:

    * Chemotherapy
    * Immunotherapy (medicine to trigger the immune system to attack and kill cancer cells) 

Surgery, radiation therapy, and hormone therapy can affect your sexual
performance. Problems with urine control are possible after surgery and
radiation therapy. Discuss your concerns with your health care provider.

After treatment for prostate cancer, you will be closely watched to make sure
the cancer does not spread. This involves routine checkups, including PSA
blood tests (usually every 3 months to 1 year).

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a prostate cancer support group.
Sharing with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not
feel alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well you do depends on whether the cancer has spread outside the prostate
gland and how abnormal the cancer cells are (the Gleason score) when you are
diagnosed.

A cure is possible if the cancer has not spread. Hormone treatment can improve
survival, even if a cure is not possible.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Discuss the advantages and disadvantages of PSA screening with your health
care provider.

## Prevention

Talk with your provider about possible ways to lower your risk of prostate
cancer. These may include lifestyle measures, such as diet and exercise.

There are no medicines approved by the FDA for preventing prostate cancer.

## Alternative Names

Cancer - prostate; Biopsy - prostate; Prostate biopsy; Gleason score

## Patient Instructions

    * Pelvic radiation - discharge
    * Prostate brachytherapy - discharge 
    * Radiation therapy - questions to ask your doctor
    * Radical prostatectomy - discharge

## Images

    * ![Male reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1113t.jpg)Male reproductive anatomy
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract
    * ![BPH](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18005t.jpg)BPH
    * ![Prostate cancer](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18038t.jpg)Prostate cancer
    * ![PSA blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18039t.jpg)PSA blood test
    * ![Prostatectomy - series - Normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10053t.jpg)Prostatectomy - Series
    * ![Transurethral Resection of the Prostate \(TURP\) - Series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10058t.jpg)Transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) - Series

## References

American Urological Association website. PSA testing for the pretreatment
staging and posttreatment management of prostate cancer: 2013 Revision of 2009
Best Practice Statement. www.auanet.org/guidelines/prostate-specific-
antigen-(psa)-best-practice-statement. Accessed December 5, 2019.

American Urological Association website. Early detection of prostate cancer
(2018): clinical guideline. www.auanet.org/guidelines/prostate-cancer-early-
detection-guideline. Accessed August 22, 2019.

National Cancer Institute website. Prostate cancer treatment (PDQ) health
professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/prostate/hp/prostate-treatment-pdq.
Updated September 20, 2019. Accessed December 5, 2019.

National Comprehensive Cancer Network website. NCCN clinical practice
guidelines in oncology (NCCN guidelines): prostate cancer. Version 4.2019.
www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/prostate.pdf. Updated August 19,
2019. Accessed September 4, 2019.

Nelson WG, Antonarakis ES, Carter HB, De Marzo AM, DeWeese TL. Prostate
cancer. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Kastan MB, Doroshow JH, Tepper JE,
eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 81.

Stephenson AJ, Klein EA. Epidemiology, etiology, and prevention of prostate
cancer. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh
Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 107.

US Preventive Services Task Force, Grossman DC, Curry SJ, et al. Screening for
prostate cancer: US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement.
_JAMA_. 2018;319(18):1901-1913. PMID: 29801017
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29801017.

## Review Date 7/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Prostate
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ProstateCancer_thumb.jpg)Prostate
Cancer _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

