Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000059.htm    
                                Description: When you have radiation treatment for cancer, your body goes through changes. Follow your health care provider    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pelvic radiation - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000059.htm

# Pelvic radiation - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

When you have radiation treatment for cancer, your body goes through changes.
Follow your health care provider's instructions on how to care for yourself at
home. Use the information below as a reminder.

## What to Expect at Home

About 2 weeks after your first radiation treatment:

    * Your skin over the treated area may turn red, start to peel, get dark, or itch.
    * Your body hair will fall out, but only in the area being treated. When your hair grows back, it may be different than before.
    * You may have bladder discomfort.
    * You may have to urinate often.
    * It may burn when you urinate.
    * You may have diarrhea and cramping in your belly. 

Women may have:

    * Itching, burning, or dryness in the vaginal area
    * Menstrual periods that stop or change
    * Hot flashes 

Both men and women may lose interest in sex.

## Skin Care

When you have radiation treatment, color markings are drawn on your skin. DO
NOT remove them. These show where to aim the radiation. If they come off, DO
NOT redraw them. Tell your provider instead.

Take care of the treatment area.

    * Wash gently with lukewarm water only. Don't scrub.
    * Use a mild soap that doesn't dry out your skin.
    * Pat yourself dry instead of rubbing.
    * Don't use lotions, ointments, perfumed powders, or perfumed products on this area. Ask your provider what is OK to use.
    * Keep the area that is being treated out of direct sunlight.
    * Don't scratch or rub your skin.
    * Don't put heating pads or ice bags on the treatment area.

Tell your provider if you have any breaks or openings in your skin.

Wear loose-fitting clothing around your stomach and pelvis.

    * Women should not wear girdles or pantyhose.
    * Cotton underwear are best. 

Keep the buttocks and pelvic area clean and dry.

## Other Self-care

Ask your provider how much and what types of liquids you should drink each
day.

Your provider may place you on a low-residue diet that limits the amount of
roughage you eat. You need to eat enough protein and calories to keep your
weight up. Ask your provider about liquid food supplements. These can help you
get enough calories.

DO NOT take a laxative. Ask your provider about medicines to help with
diarrhea or the need to urinate often.

You may feel tired after a few days. If so:

    * Do not try to do too much in a day. You probably will not be able to do everything you are used to doing.
    * Get more sleep at night. Rest during the day when you can.
    * Take a few weeks off work, or work less. 

Watch out for early signs of lymphedema (fluid build-up). Tell your provider
if you have:

    * Feelings of tightness in your leg, or your shoes or socks feel tight
    * Weakness in your leg
    * Pain, aching, or heaviness in your arm or leg
    * Redness, swelling, or signs of infection 

## Intimacy

It is normal to have less interest in sex during and right after radiation
treatments end. Your interest in sex will probably come back after your
treatment is over and your life returns to normal.

Women who get radiation treatment in their pelvic areas may have shrinking or
tightening of the vagina. Your provider will advise you about using a dilator,
which can help gently stretch vaginal walls.

## Follow-up Care

Your provider may check your blood counts regularly, especially if the
radiation treatment area on your body is large.

## Alternative Names

Radiation of the pelvis - discharge; Cancer treatment - pelvic radiation;
Prostate cancer - pelvic radiation; Ovarian cancer - pelvic radiation;
Cervical cancer - pelvic radiation; Uterine cancer - pelvic radiation; Rectal
cancer - pelvic radiation

## References

Doroshow JH. Approach to the patient with cancer. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 179.

National Cancer Institute website. Radiation therapy and you: support for
people with cancer. www.cancer.gov/publications/patient-
education/radiationttherapy.pdf. Updated October 2016. Accessed February 28,
2018.

## Read More

    * Cervical cancer
    * Colorectal cancer
    * Endometrial cancer
    * Ovarian cancer
    * Prostate cancer

## Patient Instructions

    * Diarrhea - what to ask your health care provider - adult
    * Drinking water safely during cancer treatment
    * Eating extra calories when sick - adults
    * Radiation therapy - questions to ask your doctor
    * Safe eating during cancer treatment
    * When you have diarrhea
    * When you have nausea and vomiting

## Review Date 1/31/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Anal Cancer
    * Bladder Cancer
    * Cervical Cancer
    * Colorectal Cancer
    * Ovarian Cancer
    * Prostate Cancer
    * Radiation Therapy
    * Uterine Cancer
    * Vaginal Cancer
    * Vulvar Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

