Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000907.htm    
                                Description: Cryotherapy uses very cold temperatures to freeze and kill prostate cancer cells. The goal of cryosurgery is to destroy the entire prostate gland and possibly surrounding tissue.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cryotherapy for prostate cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000907.htm

# Cryotherapy for prostate cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cryotherapy uses very cold temperatures to freeze and kill prostate cancer
cells. The goal of cryosurgery is to destroy the entire prostate gland and
possibly surrounding tissue.

Cryosurgery is generally not used as a first treatment for prostate cancer.

## What Happens During Cryotherapy

Before the procedure, you will be given medicine so that you do not feel pain.
You may receive:

    * A sedative to make you drowsy and numbing medicine on your perineum. This is the area between the anus and scrotum.
    * Anesthesia. With spinal anesthesia, you will be drowsy but awake, and numb below the waist. With general anesthesia, you will be asleep and pain-free. 

First, you will get a catheter that will stay in place for about 3 weeks after
the procedure.

    * During the procedure, the surgeon places needles through the skin of the perineum into the prostate.
    * Ultrasound is used to guide the needles to the prostate gland.
    * Then, very cold gas passes through the needles, creating ice balls that destroy the prostate gland.
    * Warm salt water will flow through the catheter to keep your urethra (the tube from the bladder to outside the body) from freezing. 

Cryosurgery is most often a 2-hour outpatient procedure. Some people may need
to stay in the hospital overnight.

## When Cryosurgery is Used to Treat Prostate Cancer

This therapy is not as commonly used and is not as well accepted as other
treatments for prostate cancer. Doctors do not know for certain how well
cryosurgery works over time. There is not enough data to compare it with
standard prostatectomy, radiation treatment, or brachytherapy.

It can only treat prostate cancer that has not spread beyond the prostate. Men
who cannot have surgery because of their age or other health problems may have
cryosurgery instead. It also may be used if cancer comes back after other
treatments.

It is generally not helpful for men with very large prostate glands.

## Side Effects

Possible short-term side effects of cryotherapy for prostate cancer include:

    * Blood in the urine
    * Trouble passing urine
    * Swelling of the penis or scrotum
    * Problems controlling your bladder (more likely if you have had radiation therapy also) 

Possible long-term problems include:

    * Erection problems in nearly all men
    * Damage to the rectum
    * A tube that forms between the rectum and the bladder, called a fistula (this is very rare)
    * Problems with passing or controlling urine 

## Alternative Names

Cryosurgery - prostate cancer; Cryoablation - prostate cancer

## Images

    * ![Male reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1113t.jpg)Male reproductive anatomy

## References

American Cancer Society website. Cryotherapy for prostate cancer.
www.cancer.org/cancer/prostate-cancer/treating/cryosurgery.html. Updated March
11, 2016. Accessed January 31, 2018.

Chipollini J, Punnen S. Salvage cryoablation of the prostate. In: Mydlo JH,
Godec CJ, eds. _Prostate Cancer: Science and Clinical Practice_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 58.

National Cancer Institute website. Prostate cancer treatment (PDQ) - health
professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/prostate/hp/prostate-treatment-pdq.
Updated January 19, 2018. Accessed January 31, 2018.

National Comprehensive Cancer Network website. NCCN clinical practice
guidelines in oncology (NCCN guidelines): prostate cancer. Version 2.2017.
www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/prostate.pdf. Updated February
21, 2017. Accessed January 31, 2018.

## Review Date 10/10/2017

Updated by: Jennifer Sobol, DO, Urologist with the Michigan Institute of
Urology, West Bloomfield, MI. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network.
Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway,
Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Prostate Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

