Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000301.htm    
                                Description: You had surgery to remove all of your prostate, some tissue near your prostate, and probably some lymph nodes. This article tells you how to take care of yourself at home after the surgery.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Radical prostatectomy - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000301.htm

# Radical prostatectomy - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had surgery to remove all of your prostate, some tissue near your
prostate, and probably some lymph nodes. This article tells you how to take
care of yourself at home after the surgery.

## When You're in the Hospital

You had surgery to remove all of your prostate, some tissue near your
prostate, and probably some lymph nodes. This was done to treat prostate
cancer.

    * Your surgeon may have made an incision (cut) either in the lower part of your belly or in the area between your scrotum and anus (open surgery).
    * Your surgeon may have used a robot or a laparoscope (a thin tube with a tiny camera on the end). You will have several small incisions on your belly.

## What to Expect at Home

You may be tired and need more rest for 3 to 4 weeks after you go home. You
may have pain or discomfort in your belly or the area between your scrotum and
anus for 2 to 3 weeks.

You will go home with a catheter (tube) to drain urine from your bladder. This
will be removed after 1 to 3 weeks.

You may go home with an additional drain (called a Jackson-Pratt, or JP
drain). You will be taught how to empty it and care for it.

## Wound Care

Change the dressing over your surgical wound once a day, or sooner if it
becomes soiled. Your health care provider will tell you when you do not need
to keep your wound covered. Keep the wound area clean by washing it with mild
soap and water.

    * You may remove the wound dressings and take showers if sutures, staples, or glue were used to close your skin. Cover the incision with plastic wrap before showering for the first week if you have tape (Steri-Strips) over it.
    * DO NOT soak in a bathtub or hot tub, or go swimming, as long as you have a catheter. You can do these activities after the catheter is removed and your doctor has told you it is OK to do so.

Your scrotum may be swollen for 2 to 3 weeks if you had open surgery. You may
need to wear either a support (like a jock strap) or brief underwear until the
swelling goes away. While you are in bed, you may use a towel under your
scrotum for support.

You may have a drain (called a Jackson-Pratt, or JP drain) below your belly
button that helps extra fluid drain from your body and prevent it from
building up in your body. Your provider will take it out after 1 to 3 days.

## Urinary Catheters

While you have a urinary catheter:

    * You may feel spasms in your bladder. Your provider can give you medicine for this.
    * You will need to make sure your indwelling catheter is working properly. You will also need to know how to clean the tube and the area where it attaches to your body so that you do not get an infection or skin irritation.
    * The urine in your drainage bag may be a darker red color. This is normal. 

After your catheter is removed:

    * You may have burning when you pee, blood in the urine, frequent urination, and an urgent need to urinate.
    * You may have some urine leakage (incontinence). This should improve over time. You should have almost normal bladder control within 3 to 6 months.
    * You will learn exercises (called Kegel exercises) that strengthen the muscles in your pelvis. You can do these exercises any time you are sitting or lying down. 

## Other Self-care

DO NOT drive the first 3 weeks after you come home. Avoid long car trips if
you can. If you need to take a long car trip, stop at least every 2 hours.

DO NOT lift anything heavier than a 1-gallon (4 liters) milk jug for the first
6 weeks. You can slowly work back up to your normal exercise routine after
that. You can do everyday activities around the house if you feel up to it.
But expect to get tired more easily.

Drink at least 8 glasses of water a day, eat a lot of fruits and vegetables,
and take stool softeners to prevent constipation. DO NOT strain during bowel
movements.

DO NOT take aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), or
other similar medicines for 2 weeks after your surgery. They may cause
problems with blood clots.

## Sexual Problems After Surgery

Sexual problems you may notice are:

    * Your erection may not be as rigid. Some men are not able to have an erection.
    * Your orgasm may not be as intense or pleasurable as before.
    * You may notice no semen at all when you have an orgasm. 

These problems may get better or even go away, but it may take many months or
more than a year. The lack of an ejaculate (semen coming out with orgasm) will
be permanent. Ask your doctor about medicines that will help.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * You have pain in your belly that does not go away when you take your pain medicines
    * It is hard to breathe
    * You have a cough that does not go away
    * You cannot drink or eat
    * Your temperature is above 100.5Â°F (38Â°C)
    * Your surgical cuts are bleeding, red, warm to the touch, or have a thick, yellow, green, or milky drainage
    * You have signs of infection (burning sensation when you urinate, fever, or chills)
    * Your urine stream is not as strong or you cannot pee at all
    * You have pain, redness, or swelling in your legs

While you have a urinary catheter, call your provider if:

    * You have pain near the catheter
    * You are leaking urine
    * You notice more blood in your urine
    * Your catheter seems blocked
    * You notice grit or stones in your urine
    * Your urine smells bad, or it is cloudy or a different color
    * Your catheter has fallen out

## Alternative Names

Prostatectomy - radical - discharge; Radical retropubic prostatectomy -
discharge; Radical perineal prostatectomy - discharge; Laparoscopic radical
prostatectomy - discharge; LRP - discharge; Robotic-assisted laparoscopic
prostatectomy - discharge; RALP - discharge; Pelvic lymphadenectomy -
discharge; Prostate cancer - prostatectomy

## References

Catalona WJ, Han M. Management of localized prostate cancer. In: Wein AJ,
Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 112.

Nelson WG, Antonarakis ES, Carter HB, De Marzo AM, et al. Prostate cancer. In:
Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Kastan MB, Doroshow JH, Tepper JE, eds.
_Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap
81.

Skolarus TA, Wolf AM, Erb NL, et al. American Cancer Society prostate cancer
survivorship care guidelines. _CA Cancer J Clin_. 2014;64(4):225-249. PMID:
24916760 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24916760.

## Read More

    * Prostate cancer
    * Radical prostatectomy
    * Retrograde ejaculation
    * Urinary incontinence

## Patient Instructions

    * Kegel exercises - self-care
    * Suprapubic catheter care
    * Urinary catheters - what to ask your doctor
    * Urine drainage bags

## Review Date 4/2/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Prostate Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

