Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000931.htm    
                                Description: Are you at risk for developing prostate cancer in your lifetime? Learn about the risk factors for prostate cancer. Understanding your risks can help you talk with your health care provider about what steps    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Understanding your prostate cancer risk

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000931.htm

# Understanding your prostate cancer risk

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Are you at risk for developing prostate cancer in your lifetime? Learn about
the risk factors for prostate cancer. Understanding your risks can help you
talk with your health care provider about what steps you may want to take.

## Risk Factors

No one knows what causes prostate cancer, but certain factors increase your
risk of getting it.

    *  **Age.** Your risk increases as you get older. It is rare before 40 years old. Most prostate cancer occurs in men age 65 and older.
    *  **Family history.** Having a father, brother, or son with prostate cancer increases your risk. Having one immediate family member with prostate cancer doubles a man's own risk. A man who has 2 or 3 first degree family members with prostate cancer is 11 times at greater risk than someone who has no family members with prostate cancer.
    *  **Race.** African American men are at higher risk than men of other races and ethnicities. Prostate cancer may occur at a younger age, too.
    *  **Genes.** Men with a BRCA1, BRCA2 gene mutation have a higher risk of prostate cancer and some other cancers. The role of genetic testing for prostate cancer is still being evaluated.
    *  **Hormones.** Male hormones (androgens) like testosterone, may play a role in the development or aggressiveness of prostate cancer. 

A Western lifestyle is linked with prostate cancer, and dietary factors have
been intensively studied. However, results are inconsistent.

Having risk factors for prostate cancer does not mean you will get it. Some
men with several risk factors never get prostate cancer. Many men without risk
factors develop prostate cancer.

## How to Reduce Your Risk

Most risks for prostate cancer, such as age and family history, cannot be
controlled. Other areas are unknown or not yet proven. Experts are still
looking at things like diet, obesity, smoking, and other factors to see how
they may affect your risk.

As with many health conditions, staying healthy is your best defense against
illness:

    * DO NOT smoke.
    * Get plenty of exercise.
    * Eat a healthy low-fat diet with plenty of vegetables and fruits.
    * Maintain a healthy weight. 

It is a good idea to talk with your provider before taking dietary
supplements. Some studies have shown that certain supplements may increase the
risk for prostate cancer, although this is unproven:

    *  **Selenium and vitamin E.** Taken separately or together, these supplements may increase your risk.
    *  **Folic acid.** Taking supplements with folic acid may increase your risk, but eating foods high in folate (a natural form of the vitamin) may help protect AGAINST prostate cancer.
    *  **Calcium.** Getting high levels of calcium in your diet, either from supplements or dairy, may increase your risk. But you should talk with your provider before cutting back on dairy. 

It is a good idea to talk with your health care provider about your risk for
prostate cancer and what you can do about it. If you have a higher risk, you
and your provider can talk though the benefits and risks of prostate cancer
screening to decide what is best for you.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your health care provider if you:

    * Have questions or concerns about your prostate cancer risk
    * Are interested or have questions about prostate cancer screening 

## References

Moyer VA, U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for Prostate Cancer:
U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann Intern
Med_. 2012;157(2):120-134. PMID: 22801674
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22801674.

National Cancer Institute website. Genetics of prostate cancer (PDQ) - Health
professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/prostate/hp/prostate-genetics-
pdq#section/all. Updated January 19, 2018. Accessed February 15, 2018.

National Cancer Institute website. Prostate cancer prevention (PDQ) - Patient
version. www.cancer.gov/types/prostate/patient/prostate-prevention-
pdq#section/all. Updated September 8, 2016. Accessed February 15, 2018.

National Cancer Institute website. National Institute of Health Surveillance,
Epidemiology, and End Results Program (SEER). SEER stat fact sheets: prostate
cancer. seer.cancer.gov/statfacts/html/prost.html. Accessed February 15, 2018.

Qaseem A, Barry MJ, Denberg TD, Owens DK, Shekelle P; Clinical Guidelines
Committee of the American College of Physicians. Screening for prostate
cancer: a guidance statement from the Clinical Guidelines Committee of the
American College of Physicians. _Ann Intern Med_. 2013;158(10):761-769. PMID:
23567643 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23567643.

## Review Date 1/31/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Prostate Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

