Link: https://medlineplus.gov/bloodtransfusionanddonation.html    
                                Description: Get information on bloodÂ donation, the bloodÂ donationÂ process, andÂ blood transfusion.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Blood Transfusion and Donation

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/bloodtransfusionanddonation.html

#  Blood Transfusion and Donation

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Diagnosis and Tests
  * Prevention and Risk Factors

### Learn More

  * Related Issues
  * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

  * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

  * Statistics and Research
  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Reference Desk
  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Teenagers
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Every year, millions of people in the United States receive life-saving blood
transfusions. During a transfusion, you receive whole blood or parts of blood
such as

  * Red blood cells - cells that carry oxygen to and from tissues and organs
  * Platelets - cells that form clots to control bleeding
  * Plasma - the liquid part of the blood that helps clotting. You may need it if you have been badly burned, have liver failure or a severe infection.

Most blood transfusions go very smoothly. Some infectious agents, such as HIV,
can survive in blood and infect the person receiving the blood transfusion. To
keep blood safe, blood banks carefully screen donated blood. The risk of
catching a virus from a blood transfusion is low.

Sometimes it is possible to have a transfusion of your own blood. During
surgery, you may need a blood transfusion because of blood loss. If you are
having a surgery that you're able to schedule months in advance, your doctor
may ask whether you would like to use your own blood, instead of donated
blood. If so, you will need to have blood drawn one or more times before the
surgery. A blood bank will store your blood for your use.

NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Start Here

  * Blood Donation (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Blood Donation Process (AABB)
  * Blood Donation Process (American Red Cross)
  * Blood Transfusion (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
  * Have You Given Blood Lately? (Food and Drug Administration) Also in Spanish
  * What Is a Blood Transfusion? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Blood Typing (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
  * Direct Antiglobulin Test (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
  * Red Blood Cell Antibody Identification (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
  * Red Blood Cell Antibody Screen ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

  * Donating Blood Questions and Answers (Food and Drug Administration)
  * Eligibility Requirements (American Red Cross)

## Related Issues

  * Alternatives to Blood Transfusion (American Cancer Society)
  * American Trypanosomiasis (Also Known as Chagas Disease) Blood Screening FAQs (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
  * Blood and Diversity (American Red Cross)
  * Blood Types (American Red Cross)
  * How You Can Help Medical Research: Donating Your Blood, Tissue, and Other Samples ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
  * Precautions and Adverse Reactions during Blood Transfusion (Merck & Co., Inc.) Also in Spanish
  * What Happens to Donated Blood? (American Red Cross)

## Specifics

  * Blood and Bone Marrow Stem Cell Donation (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
  * Blood Frequently Asked Questions (AABB)
  * Blood Transfusion (Leukemia & Lymphoma Society)
  * Exchange transfusion - slideshow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Platelet Donation (American Red Cross)
  * Special Blood Donation Procedures (Merck & Co., Inc.) Also in Spanish
  * Types of Blood Donations (America's Blood Centers)
  * Types of Blood Donations (American Red Cross)

## Videos and Tutorials

  * Testing Your Blood ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (College of American Pathologists)

## Statistics and Research

  * Blood Facts and Statistics (American Red Cross)
  * Facts and Figures (America's Blood Centers)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Blood Donors ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Blood Substitutes and Alternatives ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Blood Transfusion ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Transfusion Reaction ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: A Phase 3 Trial of Luspatercept in Patients with Transfusion-Dependent Î²-Thalassemia.
  * Article: Plasma Exchange and Glucocorticoids in Severe ANCA-Associated Vasculitis.
  * Article: Pediatric non-red cell blood product transfusion practices: what's the evidence to...
  * Blood Transfusion and Donation -- see more articles
  * Blood types -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

  * What Is Blood? (America's Blood Centers)

## Find an Expert

  * American Red Cross Also in Spanish
  * National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Teenagers

  * Blood Transfusions (For Teens) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
  * Donating Blood (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

  * Blood donation before surgery (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Blood transfusions (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Blood Transfusion and
Donation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTransfusionandDonation.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * ABO incompatibility
  * Blood donation before surgery
  * Blood transfusions
  * Exchange transfusion
  * Exchange transfusion - slideshow
  * Transfusion reaction - hemolytic

## Related Health Topics

  * Blood Disorders
  * Organ Donation
  * Stem Cells

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Blood Transfusion and Donation is
the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Blood Transfusion
and Donation_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 30 January 2020 Topic last reviewed: 17 November 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

