Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000397.htm    
                                Description: Cancer staging is a way to describe how much cancer is in your body and where it is located in your body. Prostate cancer staging helps determine how big your tumor is, whether it has spread, and where    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Prostate cancer staging

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000397.htm

# Prostate cancer staging

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cancer staging is a way to describe how much cancer is in your body and where
it is located in your body. Prostate cancer staging helps determine how big
your tumor is, whether it has spread, and where it has spread.

Knowing the stage of your cancer helps your cancer team:

    * Decide the best way to treat the cancer
    * Determine your chance of recovery
    * Find clinical trials you may be able to join 

## How Prostate Cancer Staging is Done

Initial staging is based on the results of PSA blood tests, biopsies, and
imaging tests. This is also called clinical staging.

**PSA** refers to a protein made by the prostate measured by a lab test.

    * A higher level of PSA can indicate a more advanced cancer.
    * The doctors will also look at how fast the PSA levels have been increasing from test to test. A faster increase could show a more aggressive tumor. 

A prostate biopsy is done in your doctor's office. The results can indicate:

    * How much of the prostate is involved.
    * The Gleason score. A number from 2 to 10 that shows how closely the cancer cells look like normal cells when viewed under a microscope. Scores 6 or less suggest the cancer is slow growing and not aggressive. Higher numbers indicate a faster growing cancer that is more likely to spread. 

Imaging tests such as a CT scan, MRI, or bone scan also may be done.

Using the results from these tests, your doctor can tell you your clinical
stage. At times, this is enough information to make decisions about your
treatment.

Surgical staging (pathological staging) is based on what your doctor finds if
you have surgery to remove the prostate and perhaps some of the lymph nodes.
Lab tests are done on the tissue that's removed.

This staging helps determine what other treatment you may need might. It also
helps predict what to expect after treatment ends.

## What the Stages Mean

The higher the stage, the more advanced the cancer.

 **Stage I cancer.** The cancer is found only in only one part of the
prostate. Stage I is called localized prostate cancer. It cannot be felt
during a digital rectal exam or seen with imaging tests. If the PSA is less
than 10 and the Gleason score is 6 or less, Stage I cancer is likely to grow
slowly.

 **Stage II cancer.** The cancer is more advanced than stage I. It has not
spread beyond the prostate and is still called localized. The cells are less
normal than cells in stage I, and may grow more rapidly. There are two types
of stage II prostate cancer:

    * Stage IIA is most likely found in only one side of the prostate.
    * Stage IIB may be found in both sides of the prostate. 

**Stage III cancer.** The cancer has spread outside the prostate into local
tissue. It may have spread into the seminal vesicles. These are the glands
that make semen. Stage III is called locally advanced prostate cancer.

 **Stage IV cancer.** The cancer has spread to distant parts of the body. It
could be in nearby lymph nodes or bones, most often of the pelvis or spine.
Other organs such as bladder, liver, or lungs can be involved.

Staging along with the PSA value and Gleason score help you and your doctor
decide on the best treatment, taking into account:

    * Your age
    * Your overall health
    * Your symptoms (if you have any)
    * Your feelings about side effects of treatment
    * The chance that treatment can cure your cancer or help you in other ways 

With stage I, II, or III prostate cancer, the main goal is to cure the cancer
by treating it and keeping it from coming back. With stage IV, the goal is to
improve symptoms and prolong life. In most cases, stage IV prostate cancer
cannot be cured.

## References

Loeb S, Eastham JA. Diagnosis and staging of prostate cancer. In: Wein AJ,
Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 111.

National Cancer Institute website. Prostate cancer screening (PDQ) - health
professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/prostate/hp/prostate-screening-pdq.
Updated August 2, 2019. Accessed August 24, 2019.

Reese AC. Clinical and pathologic staging of prostate cancer. Mydlo JH, Godec
CJ, eds. _Prostate Cancer_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 39.

## Review Date 7/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Prostate Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

