Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000908.htm    
                                Description: Hormone therapy for prostate cancer uses surgery or drugs to lower the levels of male sex hormones in a man    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hormone therapy for prostate cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000908.htm

# Hormone therapy for prostate cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hormone therapy for prostate cancer uses surgery or drugs to lower the levels
of male sex hormones in a man's body. This helps slow the growth of prostate
cancer.

## Male Hormones and Prostate Cancer

Androgens are male sex hormones. Testosterone is one main type of androgen.
Most testosterone is made by the testicles. The adrenal glands also produce a
small amount.

Androgens cause prostate cancer cells to grow. Hormone therapy for prostate
cancer lowers the effect level of androgens in the body. It can do this by:

    * Stopping the testicles from making androgens using surgery or medicines
    * Blocking the action of androgens in the body
    * Stopping the body from making androgens 

## When is Hormone Therapy Used?

Hormone therapy is almost never used forÂ people with Stage I or Stage II
prostate cancer.

It is mainly used for:

    * Advanced cancer that has spread beyond the prostate gland
    * Cancer that has failed to respond to surgery or radiation
    * Cancer that has recurred 

It may also be used:

    * Before radiation or surgery to help shrink tumors
    * Along with radiation therapy for cancer that is likely to recur 

## Drugs That Lower Androgen Levels

The most common treatment is to take drugs that lower the amount of androgens
made by the testicles. They are called luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone
(LHRH) analogs. These drugs lower androgen levels just as well as surgery
does. This type of treatment is sometimes called "chemical castration."

Men who receive androgen deprivation therapy should have follow-up exams with
the doctor prescribing the drugs:

    * Within 3 to 6 months after starting therapy
    * At least once a year, to monitor blood pressure and perform blood sugar (glucose) and cholesterol tests
    * To get PSA blood tests to monitor how well the therapy is working 

LHRH analogs are given as a shot or as a small implant placed under the skin.
They are given anywhere from once a month to once a year. These drugs include:

    * Leuprolide (Lupron, Eligard)
    * Goserelin (Zoladex)
    * Triptorelin(Trelstar)
    * Histrelin (Vantas) 

Another medicine, degarelix (Firmagon), is an LHRH antagonist. It reduces
androgen levels more quickly and has fewer side effects. It is used in men
with advanced cancer.

Some doctors recommend stopping and restarting treatment (intermittent
therapy). This approach appears to help reduce hormone therapy side effects.
However, it is not clear if intermittent therapy works as well as continuous
therapy. Some studies indicate that continuous therapy is more effective or
that intermittent therapy should only be used for select types of prostate
cancer.

Surgery to remove the testicles (castration) stops the production of most
androgens in the body. This also shrinks or stops prostate cancer from
growing. While effective, most men do not choose this option.

## Drugs That Block Androgen

Some drugs that work by blocking the effect of androgen on prostate cancer
cells. They are called anti-androgens. These drugs are taken as pills. They
are often used when medicines to lower androgen levels are no longer working
as well.

Anti-androgens include:

    * Flutamide (Eulexin)
    * Enzalutamide (Xtandi)
    * Bicalutamide (Casodex)
    * Nilutamide (Nilandron)

## Drugs That Stop the Body From Making Androgens

Androgens can be produced in other areas of the body, such as the adrenal
glands. Some prostate cancer cells can also make androgens. Three drugs help
to stop the body from making androgens from tissue other than the testicles.

Two medicines, ketoconazole (Nizoral) and aminoglutethimide (Cytradren), treat
other diseases but are sometimes used to treat prostate cancer. The third,
abiraterone (Zytiga) treats advanced prostate cancer that has spread to other
places in the body.

## When Hormone Therapy Stops Working

Over time, prostate cancer becomes resistant to hormone therapy. This means
that cancer only needs low levels of androgen to grow. When this occurs,
additional drugs or other treatments may be added.

## Side Effects

Androgens have effects all over the body. So treatments that lower these
hormones can cause many different side effects. The longer you take these
medicines, the more likely you are to have side effects.

They include:

    * Trouble getting an erection and not being interested in sex
    * Shrinking testicles and penis
    * Hot flashes
    * Weakened or broken bones
    * Smaller, weaker muscles
    * Changes in blood fats, such as cholesterol
    * Changes in blood sugar
    * Weight gain
    * Mood swings
    * Fatigue
    * Growth of breast tissue, breast tenderness 

Androgen deprivation therapy can increase the risks for diabetes and heart
disease.

## Weighing the Options

Deciding on hormonal therapy for prostate cancer can be a complex and even
difficult decision. The type of treatment may depend on:

    * Your risk for cancer coming back
    * How advanced your cancer is
    * Whether other treatments have stopped working
    * Whether cancer has spread 

Talking with your provider about your options and the benefits and risks of
each treatment can help you make the best decision for you.

## Alternative Names

Androgen deprivation therapy; ADT; Androgen suppression therapy; Combined
androgen blockade

## Images

    * ![Male reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1113t.jpg)Male reproductive anatomy

## References

American Cancer Society website. Hormone therapy for prostate cancer.
www.cancer.org/cancer/prostate-cancer/treating/hormone-therapy.html. Updated
March 11, 2016. Accessed January 31, 2018.

National Cancer Institute website. Hormone therapy for prostate cancer.
www.cancer.gov/types/prostate/prostate-hormone-therapy-fact-sheet. Updated
June 23, 2014. Accessed January 31, 2018.

National Cancer Institute website. Prostate cancer treatment (PDQ) - health
professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/prostate/hp/prostate-treatment-pdq.
Updated January 19, 2018. Accessed January 31, 2018.

National Comprehensive Cancer Network website. NCCN clinical practice
guidelines in oncology (NCCN guidelines): prostate cancer. Version 2.2017.
www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/prostate.pdf. Updated February
21, 2017. Accessed January 31, 2018.

Nelson JB. Hormonal therapy for prostate cancer. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR,
Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 120.

## Review Date 10/10/2017

Updated by: Jennifer Sobol, DO, urologist with the Michigan Institute of
Urology, West Bloomfield, MI. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network.
Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway,
Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Prostate Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

