Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000403.htm    
                                Description: Treatment for your prostate cancer is chosen after a thorough evaluation. Your health care provider will discuss the benefits and risks of each treatment.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Prostate cancer treatment

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000403.htm

# Prostate cancer treatment

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Treatment for your prostate cancer is chosen after a thorough evaluation. Your
health care provider will discuss the benefits and risks of each treatment.

Sometimes your provider may recommend one treatment for you because of your
type of cancer and risk factors. Other times, there may be two or more
treatments that could be good for you.

Factors you and your provider must think about include:

    * Your age and other medical problems you may have
    * Side effects that occur with each type of treatment
    * How much the prostate cancer has spread
    * Your Gleason score, which tells how likely it is that cancer has already spread
    * Your prostate-specific antigen (PSA) test result 

Ask your provider to explain these things following about your treatment
choices:

    * Which choices offer the best chance of curing your cancer or controlling its spread?
    * How likely is it that you will have different side effects, and how they will affect your life?

## Radical Prostatectomy (Prostate Removal)

Radical prostatectomy is a surgery to remove the prostate and some of the
surrounding tissue. It is an option when the cancer has not spread beyond the
prostate gland.

Healthy men who will likely live 10 or more years after being diagnosed with
prostate cancer often have this procedure.

Be aware that it is not always possible to know for certain, before surgery,
if the cancer has spread beyond the prostate gland.

Possible problems after surgery include difficulty controlling urine and
erection problems. Also, some men need further treatments after this surgery.

## Radiation Therapy

Radiation therapy works best for treating prostate cancer that has not spread
outside of the prostate. It may also be used after surgery if there is a risk
that cancer cells are still present. Radiation is sometimes used for pain
relief when cancer has spread to the bone.

External beam radiation therapy uses high-powered x-rays pointed at the
prostate gland:

    * Before treatment, the radiation therapist uses a special pen to mark the part of the body that is to be treated.
    * Radiation is delivered to the prostate gland using a machine similar to a regular x-ray machine. The treatment itself is usually painless.
    * Treatment is done in a radiation oncology center that is usually connected to a hospital.
    * Treatment is usually done 5 days a week for 6 to 8 weeks. 

Side effects may include:

    * Appetite loss
    * Diarrhea
    * Erection problems
    * Fatigue
    * Rectal burning or injury
    * Skin reactions
    * Urinary incontinence, the feeling of needing to urinate urgently, or blood in the urine 

There are reports of secondary cancers arising from the radiation as well.

Proton therapy is another kind of radiation therapy used to treat prostate
cancer. Proton beams target the tumor precisely, so there is less damage to
the surrounding tissue. This therapy is not widely accepted or used.

## Prostate Brachytherapy

Brachytherapy is often used for small prostate cancers that are found early
and are slow-growing. Brachytherapy may be combined with external beam
radiation therapy for more advanced cancers.

Brachytherapy involves placing radioactive seeds inside the prostate gland.

    * A surgeon inserts small needles through the skin beneath your scrotum to inject the seeds. The seeds are so small that you do not feel them.
    * The seeds are left in place permanently. 

Side effects may include:

    * Pain, swelling, or bruising in the penis or scrotum
    * Red-brown urine or semen
    * Impotence
    * Incontinence
    * Urinary retention
    * Diarrhea 

## Hormonal Therapy

Testosterone is the main male hormone. Prostate tumors need testosterone to
grow. Hormonal therapy is treatment that decreases the effect of testosterone
on prostate cancer.

Hormone therapy is mainly used for cancer that has spread beyond the prostate.
The treatment can help relieve symptoms and prevent further growth and spread
of cancer. But it does not cure the cancer.

The main type of hormone therapy is called a luteinizing hormone-releasing
hormones (LH-RH) agonist:

    * The medicine blocks the testicles from making testosterone. The drugs must be given by injection, usually every 3 to 6 months.
    * Possible side effects include nausea and vomiting, hot flashes, anemia, fatigue, thinning bones (osteoporosis), reduced sexual desire, decreased muscle mass, weight gain, and impotence. 

The other type of hormone medicine is called an androgen-blocking drug:

    * It is often given along with LH-RH drugs to block the effect of testosterone produced by the adrenal glands, which make a small amount of testosterone.
    * Possible side effects include erection problems, reduced sexual desire, liver problems, diarrhea, and enlarged breasts. 

Much of the body's testosterone is made by the testes. As a result, surgery to
remove the testes (called orchiectomy) can also be used as a hormonal
treatment.

## Chemotherapy

Chemotherapy and immunotherapy (medicine that helps the body's immune system
fight the cancer) may be used to treat prostate cancer that no longer responds
to hormone treatment. Usually a single drug or a combination of drugs is
recommended.

## Cryotherapy

Cryotherapy uses very cold temperatures to freeze and kill prostate cancer
cells. The goal of cryosurgery is to destroy the entire prostate gland and
possibly surrounding tissue.

Cryosurgery is generally not used as a first treatment for prostate cancer.

## Images

    * ![Male reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1113t.jpg)Male reproductive anatomy

## References

National Cancer Institute website. Prostate cancer treatment (PDQ) - health
professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/prostate/hp/prostate-treatment-pdq.
Updated December 8, 2017. Accessed January 31, 2018.

National Comprehensive Cancer Network website. NCCN clinical practice
guidelines in oncology (NCCN guidelines): prostate cancer. Version 2.2017.
www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/prostate.pdf. Updated February
21, 2017. Accessed January 31, 2018.

Nelson WG, Carter HB, DeWeese TL, et al. Prostate cancer. In: Niederhuber JE,
Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, Antonarakis ES, Eisenberger
MA, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 84.

## Review Date 10/10/2017

Updated by: Jennifer Sobol, DO, Urologist with the Michigan Institute of
Urology, West Bloomfield, MI. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network.
Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway,
Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Prostate Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

