Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007385.htm    
                                Description: Brachytherapy is a procedure to implant radioactive seeds (pellets) into the prostate gland to kill prostate cancer cells. The seeds may give off high or low amounts of radiation.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Prostate brachytherapy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007385.htm

# Prostate brachytherapy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Brachytherapy is a procedure to implant radioactive seeds (pellets) into the
prostate gland to kill prostate cancer cells. The seeds may give off high or
low amounts of radiation.

## Description

Brachytherapy takes 30 minutes or more, depending on the type of therapy you
have. Before the procedure, you will be given medicine so that you do not feel
pain. You may receive:

    * A sedative to make you drowsy and numbing medicine on your perineum. This is the area between the anus and scrotum.
    * Anesthesia:Â With spinal anesthesia, you will be drowsy but awake, and numb below the waist. With general anesthesia, you will be asleep and pain free. 

After you receive anesthesia:

    * The doctor places an ultrasound probe into your rectum to view the area. The probe is like a camera connected to a video monitor in the room. A catheter (tube) may be placed in your bladder to drain urine.
    * The doctor uses ultrasound or a CT scan to plan and then place the seeds that deliver radiation into your prostate. The seeds are placed with needles or special applicators through your perineum.
    * Placing the seeds may hurt a little (if you are awake). 

Types of brachytherapy:

    * Low-dose rate brachytherapy is the most common type of treatment. The seeds stay inside your prostate and put out a small amount of radiation for several months. You go about your normal routine with the seeds in place.
    * High-dose rate brachytherapy lasts about 30 minutes. Your doctor inserts the radioactive material into the prostate. The doctor may use a computerized robot to do this. The radioactive material is removed right away after treatment. This method often requiresÂ 2 treatments spaced 1 week apart. 

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Brachytherapy is often used for men with prostate cancer that is found early
and is slow-growing. Brachytherapy has fewer complications and side effects
than standard radiation therapy. You will also need fewer visits with the
health care provider.

## Risks

Risks of any anesthesia are:

    * Allergic reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems

Risks of any surgery are:

    * Bleeding
    * Infection

Risks of this procedure are:

    * Impotence
    * Difficulty emptying your bladder, and the need to use a catheter 
    * Rectal urgency, or the feeling that you need to have a bowel movement right away 
    * Skin irritation in your rectum or bleeding from your rectum
    * Other urinary problems
    * Ulcers (sores) or a fistula (abnormal passage) in the rectum, scarring and narrowing of the urethra (all of these are rare)

## Before the Procedure

Tell your provider what medicines you are taking. These include medicines,
supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription.

Before this procedure:

    * You may need to have ultrasounds, x-rays, or CT scans to prepare for the procedure.
    * Several days before the procedure, you may be told to stop taking medicines that make it hard for your blood to clot. These medicines include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil), clopidogrel (Plavix), and warfarin (Coumadin).
    * Ask which medicines you should still take on the day of the surgery.
    * If you smoke, try to stop. Your provider can help.

On the day of the procedure:

    * You will likely be asked not to drink or eat anything for several hours before the procedure.
    * Take the medicines you've been told to take with a small sip of water.
    * You will be told when to arrive at the hospital. Be sure to arrive on time.

## After the Procedure

You may be sleepy and have mild pain and tenderness after the procedure.

After an outpatient procedure, you can go home as soon as the anesthesia wears
off. In rare cases, you will need to spend 1 to 2 days in the hospital. If you
stay in the hospital, your visitors will need to follow special radiation
safety precautions.

If you have a permanent implant, your provider may tell you to limit the
amount of time you spend around children and women who are pregnant. After a
few weeks to months, the radiation is gone and will not cause any harm.
Because of this, there is no need to take out the seeds.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

MostÂ men with small, slow-growing prostate cancer remain cancer-free or their
cancer is in good control for many years after this treatment. Urinary and
rectal symptoms may last for months or years.

## Alternative Names

Implant therapy - prostate cancer; Radioactive seed placement; Internal
radiation therapy - prostate; High dose radiation (HDR)

## Patient Instructions

    * Prostate brachytherapy - discharge 

## References

D'Amico AV, Nguyen PL, Crook JM, et al. Radiation therapy for prostate cancer.
In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_.
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 116.

Nelson WG, Antonarakis ES, Carter HB, De Marzo AM, DeWeese TL. Prostate
cancer. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Kastan MB, Doroshow JH, Tepper JE,
eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 81.

U.S. National Library of Medicine, PubMed website. PDQ Adult Treatment
Editorial Board. Prostate cancer treatment (PDQ): health professional version.
Bethesda, MD: National Cancer Institute; 2002-2019. PMID: 26389471
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26389471.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Prostate
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ProstateCancer_thumb.jpg)Prostate
Cancer _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

