Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007115.htm    
                                Description: Coronary heart disease is a narrowing of the small blood vessels that supply blood and oxygen to the heart. Coronary heart disease (CHD) is also called coronary artery disease.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Coronary heart disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007115.htm

# Coronary heart disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Coronary heart disease is a narrowing of the small blood vessels that supply
blood and oxygen to the heart. Coronary heart disease (CHD) is also called
coronary artery disease.

## Causes

CHD is the leading cause of death in the United States for men and women.

CHD is caused by the buildup of plaque in the arteries to your heart. This may
also be called hardening of the arteries.

    * Fatty material and other substances form a plaque buildup on the walls of your coronary arteries. The coronary arteries bring blood and oxygen to your heart.
    * This buildup causes the arteries to get narrow.
    * As a result, blood flow to the heart can slow down or stop. 

A risk factor for heart disease is something that increases your chance of
getting it. You cannot change some risk factors for heart disease, but you can
change others.

## Symptoms

In some cases, symptoms may be very noticeable. But, you can have the disease
and not have any symptoms. This is more often true in the early stages of
heart disease.

Chest pain or discomfort (angina) is the most common symptom. You feel this
pain when the heart is not getting enough blood or oxygen. The pain may feel
different from person to person.

    * It may feel heavy or like someone is squeezing your heart. You may feel it under your breast bone (sternum). You may also feel it in your neck, arms, stomach, or upper back.
    * The pain most often occurs with activity or emotion. It goes away with rest or a medicine called nitroglycerin.
    * Other symptoms include shortness of breath and fatigue with activity (exertion). 

Some people have symptoms other than chest pain, such as:

    * Fatigue
    * Shortness of breath
    * General weakness 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine you. You will often need more than one
test before getting a diagnosis.

Tests to evaluate for CHD may include:

    * Coronary angiography \-- An invasive test that evaluates the heart arteries under x-ray.
    * Echocardiogram stress test.
    * Electrocardiogram (ECG).
    * Electron-beam computed tomography (EBCT) to look for calcium in the lining of the arteries. The more calcium, the higher your chance for CHD.
    * Exercise stress test.
    * Heart CT scan.
    * Nuclear stress test. 

## Treatment

You may be asked to take one or more medicines to treat blood pressure,
diabetes, or high cholesterol levels. Follow your provider's directions
closely to help prevent CHD from getting worse.

Goals for treating these conditions in people who have CHD:

    * The most commonly used blood pressure target for people with heart disease is less than 130/80, but your provider may recommend a different blood pressure target.
    * If you have diabetes, your HbA1c levels will be monitored and brought down to the level your provider recommends.
    * Your LDL cholesterol level will be lowered with statin drugs. 

Treatment depends on your symptoms and how severe the disease is. You should
know about:

    * Other medicines used to treat angina.
    * What to do when you have chest pain.
    * Being active when you have heart disease.
    * Eating a heart-healthy diet. 

Never stop taking your medicines without first talking to your provider.
Stopping heart medicines suddenly can make your angina worse or cause a heart
attack.

You may be referred to a cardiac rehabilitation program to help improve your
heart's fitness.

Procedures and surgeries used to treat CHD include:

    * Angioplasty and stent placement, called percutaneous coronary interventions (PCIs)
    * Coronary artery bypass surgery
    * Minimally invasive heart surgery

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Everyone recovers differently. Some people can stay healthy by changing their
diet, stopping smoking, and taking their medicines as prescribed. Others may
need medical procedures such as angioplasty or surgery.

In general, early detection of CHD generally leads to a better outcome.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you have any risk factors for CHD, talk to your provider about prevention
and possible treatment steps.

Call your provider, call the local emergency number (such as 911), or go to
the emergency room right away if you have:

    * Angina or chest pain
    * Shortness of breath
    * Symptoms of a heart attack

## Prevention

Take these steps to help prevent heart disease.

    * If you smoke, stop. There are many resources available to help you stop smoking.
    * Learn how to eat a heart-healthy diet by making simple substitutions. For example, choose heart-healthy fats over butter and other saturated fats.
    * Get regular exercise, ideally at least 30 minutes most days. If you have heart disease, talk with your provider about starting an exercise routine.
    * Maintain a healthy body weight.
    * Lower high cholesterol with lifestyle changes, and if needed, statin medicines.
    * Lower high blood pressure using diet and medicines.
    * Talk with your provider about aspirin therapy.
    * If you have diabetes, keep it well-managed to help prevent heart attack and stroke.

Even if you already have heart disease, taking these steps will help protect
your heart and prevent further damage.

## Alternative Names

Heart disease, Coronary heart disease, Coronary artery disease;
Arteriosclerotic heart disease; CHD; CAD

## Patient Instructions

    * After weight-loss surgery - what to ask your doctor
    * Antiplatelet drugs - P2Y12 inhibitors
    * Aspirin and heart disease
    * Before weight-loss surgery - what to ask your doctor
    * Cholesterol - drug treatment
    * Controlling your high blood pressure
    * Dietary fats explained
    * Fast food tips
    * Gastric bypass surgery - discharge 
    * Heart bypass surgery - discharge
    * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive - discharge
    * Heart disease - risk factors
    * Heart failure - discharge
    * Heart failure - fluids and diuretics
    * Heart failure - home monitoring
    * Heart pacemaker - discharge
    * How to read food labels
    * Implantable cardioverter defibrillator - discharge
    * Laparoscopic gastric banding - discharge 
    * Low-salt diet 
    * Mediterranean diet

## Images

    * ![Heart, section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
    * ![Heart, front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1097t.jpg)Heart - front view
    * ![Anterior heart arteries](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9367t.jpg)Anterior heart arteries
    * ![Posterior heart arteries](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18037t.jpg)Posterior heart arteries
    * ![Acute MI](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17004t.jpg)Acute MI
    * ![Cholesterol producers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19269t.jpg)Cholesterol producers

## References

Fihn SD, Blankenship JC, Alexander KP, et al. 2014 ACC/AHA/AATS/PCNA/SCAI/STS
focused update of the guideline for the diagnosis and management of patients
with stable ischemic heart disease: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines, and
the American Association for Thoracic Surgery, Preventive Cardiovascular
Nurses Association, Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions,
and Society of Thoracic Surgeons. _Circulation_. 2014;130(19):1749-1767. PMID:
25070666 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25070666.

Fihn SD, Gardin JM, Abrams J, et al; American College of Cardiology
Foundation; American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines;
American College of Physicians; American Association for Thoracic Surgery;
Preventive Cardiovascular Nurses Association; Society for Cardiovascular
Angiography and Interventions; Society of Thoracic Surgeons. 2012
ACCF/AHA/ACP/AATS/PCNA/SCAI/STS guideline for the diagnosis and management of
patients with stable ischemic heart disease: a report of the American College
of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice
Guidelines, and the American College of Physicians, American Association for
Thoracic Surgery, Preventive Cardiovascular Nurses Association, Society for
Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions, and Society of Thoracic
Surgeons. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2012;60(24):e44-e164. PMID: 23182125
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23182125.

Greenland P, Alpert JS, Beller GA, et al; American College of Cardiology
Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. 2010
ACCF/AHA guideline for assessment of cardiovascular risk in asymptomatic
adults: executive summary: a report of the American College of Cardiology
Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines.
_Circulation_. 2010;122(25):2748-2764. PMID: 21098427
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21098427.

Hansson GK, Hamsten A. Atherosclerosis, thrombosis, and vascular biology. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 70.

Morrow DA, Boden WE. Stable ischemic heart disease. In: Mann DL, Zipes DP,
Libby P, Bonow RO, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of
Cardiovascular Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 54.

Mosca L, Benjamin EJ, Berra K, et al. Effectiveness-based guidelines for the
prevention of cardiovascular disease in women--2011 update:a guideline from
the American Heart Association. _Circulation_. 2011;123(11):1243-1262. PMID:
21325087 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21325087.

Ridker PM, Libby P, Buring JE. Risk markers and the primary prevention of
cardiovascular disease. In: Mann DL, Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Braunwald E,
eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 10th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 42.

Stone NJ, Robinson JG, Lichtenstein AH, et al; American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. 2013
ACC/AHA guideline on the treatment of blood cholesterol to reduce
atherosclerotic cardiovascular risk in adults: a report of the American
College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice
Guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2014;63(25 Pt B):2889-2934. PMID: 24239923
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24239923.

Whelton PK, Carey RM, Aronow WS, et al. 2017
ACC/AHA/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/AGS/APhA/ASH/ASPC/NMA/PCNA Guideline for the Prevention,
Detection, Evaluation, and Management of High Blood Pressure in Adults: A
Report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task
Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2017; pii:
S0735-1097(17)41519-1. PMID: 29146535 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29146535.

## Review Date 2/13/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Coronary Artery
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CoronaryArteryDisease_thumb.jpg)Coronary
Artery Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

