Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007473.htm    
                                Description: Angioplasty is a procedure to open narrowed or blocked blood vessels that supply blood to the heart. These blood vessels are called the coronary arteries.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Angioplasty and stent placement - heart

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007473.htm

# Angioplasty and stent placement - heart

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Angioplasty is a procedure to open narrowed or blocked blood vessels that
supply blood to the heart. These blood vessels are called the coronary
arteries.

A coronary artery stent is a small, metal mesh tube that expands inside a
coronary artery. A stent is often placed during or immediately after
angioplasty. It helps prevent the artery from closing up again. A drug-eluting
stent has medicine embedded in it that helps prevent the artery from closing
in the long term.

![Balloon angioplasty - short
segment](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200037t.gif)Watch this
video about:Balloon angioplasty - short segment

## Description

Before the angioplasty procedure begins, you will receive some pain medicine.
You may also be given medicine that relaxes you, and blood-thinning medicines
to prevent a blood clot from forming.

You will lie on a padded table. Your doctor will insert a flexible tube
(catheter) into an artery. Sometimes the catheter will be placed in your arm
or wrist, or in your upper leg (groin) area. You will be awake during the
procedure.

The doctor will use live x-ray pictures to carefully guide the catheter up
into your heart and arteries. Liquid contrast (sometimes called "dye," will be
injected into your body to highlight blood flow through the arteries. This
helps the doctor see any blockages in the blood vessels that lead to your
heart.

A guide wire is moved into and across the blockage. A balloon catheter is
pushed over the guide wire and into the blockage. The balloon on the end is
blown up (inflated). This opens the blocked vessel and restores proper blood
flow to the heart.

A wire mesh tube (stent) may then be placed in this blocked area. The stent is
inserted along with the balloon catheter. It expands when the balloon is
inflated. The stent is left there to help keep the artery open.

![Coronary artery
stent](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/23193.jpg)

The stent may be coated with a drug (called a drug-eluting stent). This type
of stent may lower the chance of the artery closing back up in the future.
Currently, drug-eluting stents are used in certain situations.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Arteries can become narrowed or blocked by deposits called plaque. Plaque is
made up of fat and cholesterol that builds up on the inside of artery walls.
This condition is called hardening of the arteries (atherosclerosis).

Angioplasty may be used to treat:

    * Blockage in a coronary artery during or after a heart attack
    * Blockage or narrowing of one or more coronary arteries that may lead to poor heart function (heart failure)
    * Narrowings that reduce blood flow and cause persistent chest pain (angina) that medicines do not control 

Not every blockage can be treated with angioplasty. Some people who have
several blockages or blockages in certain locations may need coronary bypass
surgery.

## Risks

Angioplasty is generally safe, but ask your doctor about the possible
complications. Risks of angioplasty and stent placement are:

    * Allergic reaction to the drug used in a drug-eluting stent, the stent material (very rare), or the x-ray dye
    * Bleeding or clotting in the area where the catheter was inserted
    * Blood clot
    * Clogging of the inside of the stent (in-stent restenosis). This can be life-threatening.
    * Damage to a heart valve or blood vessel
    * Heart attack
    * Kidney failure (higher risk in people who already have kidney problems)
    * Irregular heartbeat (arrhythmias)
    * Stroke (this is rare) 

## Before the Procedure

Angioplasty is often performed when you go to the hospital or emergency room
for chest pain, or after a heart attack. If you are admitted to the hospital
for angioplasty:

    * Tell your health care provider what drugs you are taking, even drugs or herbs you bought without a prescription.
    * You will most often be asked not to drink or eat anything for 6 to 8 hours before the test.
    * Take the drugs your provider told you to take with a small sip of water.
    * Tell your provider if you are allergic to seafood, you have had a bad reaction to contrast material or iodine in the past, you are taking Viagra, or you are or might be pregnant.

## After the Procedure

The average hospital stay is 2 days or less. Some people may not even have to
stay overnight in the hospital.

In general, people who have angioplasty are able to walk around within a few
hours after the procedure depending on how the procedure went and where the
catheter was placed. Complete recovery takes a week or less. You will be given
information how to care for yourself after angioplasty.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

For most people, angioplasty greatly improves blood flow through the coronary
artery and the heart. It may help you avoid the need for coronary artery
bypass surgery (CABG).

Angioplasty does not cure the cause of the blockage in your arteries. Your
arteries may become narrow again.

Follow your heart-healthy diet, exercise, stop smoking (if you smoke), and
reduce stress to lower your chances of having another blocked artery.Your
provider may prescribe medicine to help lower your cholesterol or control your
blood pressure. Taking these steps can help reduce your chances of
complications from atherosclerosis.

## Alternative Names

PCI; Percutaneous coronary intervention; Balloon angioplasty; Coronary
angioplasty; Coronary artery angioplasty; Percutaneous transluminal coronary
angioplasty; Heart artery dilatation; Angina - stent placement; Acute coronary
syndrome - stent placement; Coronary artery disease - stent placement; CAD -
stent placement; Coronary heart disease - stent placement; ACS - stent
placement; Heart attack - stent placement; Myocardial infarction - stent
placement; MI - stent placement; Coronary revascularization - stent placement

## Images

    * ![Coronary artery stent](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23193t.jpg)Coronary artery stent

## References

Amsterdam EA, Wenger NK, Brindis RG, et al. 2014 AHA/ACC guideline for the
management of patients with non ST-elevation acute coronary syndromes: a
report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task
Force on Practice Guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2014;64(24):e139-e228.
PMID: 25260718 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25260718.

Fihn SD, Blankenship JC, Alexander KP, et al. 2014 ACC/AHA/AATS/PCNA/SCAI/STS
focused update of the guideline for the diagnosis and management of patients
with stable ischemic heart disease. _Circulation_. 2014;130(19):1749â1767.
PMID: 25070666 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25070666.

Mauri L, Bhatt DL. Percutaneous coronary intervention. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 62.

Morrow DA, de Lemos JA. Stable ischemic heart disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 61.

O'Gara PT, Kushner FG, Ascheim DD, et al. 2013 ACCF/AHA guideline for the
management of ST-elevation myocardial infarction: a report of the American
College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on
Practice Guidelines. _Circulation_. 2013;127(4):529-555. PMID: 23247303
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23247303.

## Review Date 7/25/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![After
Surgery](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AfterSurgery_thumb.jpg)Angioplasty
_Read more_

![Coronary Artery
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CoronaryArteryDisease_thumb.jpg)Coronary
Artery Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

