Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002303.htm    
                                Description: A stent is a tiny tube placed into a hollow structure in your body. This structure can be an artery, a vein, or another structure such as the tube that carries urine (ureter). The stent holds the structure    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Stent

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002303.htm

# Stent

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A stent is a tiny tube placed into a hollow structure in your body. This
structure can be an artery, a vein, or another structure such as the tube that
carries urine (ureter). The stent holds the structure open.

![Coronary artery
stent](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/23193.jpg)

## Description

When a stent is placed into the body, the procedure is called stenting. There
are different kinds of stents. Most are made of a metal or plastic mesh-like
material. However, stent grafts are made of fabric. They are used in larger
arteries.

A coronary artery stent is a small, self-expanding, metal mesh tube. It is
placed inside a coronary artery after balloon angioplasty. This stent prevents
the artery from re-closing.

A drug-eluting stent is coated with a medicine. This medicine helps further
prevent the arteries from re-closing. Like other coronary artery stents, it is
left permanently in the artery.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Most of the time, stents are used when arteries become narrow or blocked.

Stents are commonly used to treat the following conditions that result from
blocked or damaged blood vessels:

    * Coronary heart disease (CHD) (angioplasty and stent placement - heart)
    * Peripheral artery disease (angioplasty and stent replacement - peripheral arteries)
    * Deep vein thrombosis (DVT)
    * Renal artery stenosis
    * Abdominal aortic aneurysm (aortic aneurysm repair - endovascular)
    * Carotid artery disease (carotid artery surgery) 

Other reasons to use stents include:

    * Keeping open a blocked or damaged ureter (percutaneous urinary procedures)
    * Treating aneurysms, including thoracic aortic aneurysms
    * Keeping bile flowing in blocked bile ducts (biliary stricture)
    * Helping you breathe if you have a blockage in the airways 

## Risks

Related topics include:

    * Angioplasty and stent placement - heart
    * Angioplasty and stent placement - peripheral arteries
    * Percutaneous urinary procedures
    * Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shuntÂ (TIPS)
    * Carotid artery surgery
    * Aortic aneurysm repair - endovascular
    * Thoracic aortic aneurysm

## Alternative Names

Drug-eluting stents; Urinary or ureteral stents; Coronary stents

## Patient Instructions

    * Angioplasty and stent - heart - discharge 
    * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery - discharge 
    * Angioplasty and stent placement - peripheral arteries - discharge 
    * Aortic aneurysm repair - endovascular - discharge
    * Cardiac catheterization - discharge 
    * Carotid artery surgery - discharge
    * Percutaneous urinary procedures - discharge
    * Peripheral artery bypass - leg - discharge 

## Images

    * ![Coronary artery stent](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23193t.jpg)Coronary artery stent
    * ![Coronary artery balloon angioplasty - Series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19001t.jpg)Coronary artery balloon angioplasty - series

## References

Harunarashid H. Vascular and endovascular surgery. In: Garden OJ, Parks RW,
eds. _Principles and Practice of Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 21.

Teirstein PS, Lytle BW. Interventional and surgical treatment of coronary
artery disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 74.

White CJ. Atherosclerotic peripheral arterial disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 79.

Zeidel ML. Obstructive uropathy. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicin_ e. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 123.

## Review Date 6/10/2018

Updated by: Deepak Sudheendra, MD, FSIR, RPVI, Assistant Professor of
Interventional Radiology & Surgery at the University of Pennsylvania Perelman
School of Medicine, with an expertise in Vascular Interventional Radiology &
Surgical Critical Care, Philadelphia, PA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![After
Surgery](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AfterSurgery_thumb.jpg)Angioplasty
_Read more_

![Coronary Artery
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CoronaryArteryDisease_thumb.jpg)Coronary
Artery Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

