Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000171.htm    
                                Description: Atherosclerosis, sometimes called &quot;hardening of the arteries,&quot; occurs when fat, cholesterol, and other substances build up in the walls of arteries. These deposits are called plaques. Over time, these    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Atherosclerosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000171.htm

# Atherosclerosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Atherosclerosis, sometimes called "hardening of the arteries," occurs when
fat, cholesterol, and other substances build up in the walls of arteries.
These deposits are called plaques. Over time, these plaques can narrow or
completely block the arteries and cause problems throughout the body.

Atherosclerosis is a common disorder.

## Causes

![Atherosclerosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200034t.gif)Watch
this video about:Atherosclerosis

Atherosclerosis often occurs with aging. As you grow older, plaque buildup
narrows your arteries and makes them stiffer. These changes make it harder for
blood to flow through them.

Clots may form in these narrowed arteries and block blood flow. Pieces of
plaque can also break off and move to smaller blood vessels, blocking them.

These blockages starve tissues of blood and oxygen. This can result in damage
or tissue death. It is a common cause of heart attack and stroke.

High blood cholesterol levels can cause hardening of the arteries at a younger
age.

For many people, high cholesterol levels are due to a diet that is too high in
saturated fats and trans fats.

![Cholesterol
producers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19269.jpg)

Other factors that can contribute to hardening of the arteries include:

    * Diabetes
    * Family history of hardening of the arteries
    * High blood pressure
    * Lack of exercise
    * Being overweight or obese
    * Smoking 

## Symptoms

Atherosclerosis does not cause symptoms until blood flow to part of the body
becomes slowed or blocked.

If the arteries supplying the heart become narrow, blood flow can slow down or
stop. This can cause chest pain (stable angina), shortness of breath, and
other symptoms.

Narrowed or blocked arteries may also cause problems in the intestines,
kidneys, legs, and brain.

## Exams and Tests

A health care provider will perform a physical exam and listen to the heart
and lungs with a stethoscope. Atherosclerosis can create a whooshing or
blowing sound ("bruit") over an artery.

All adults over the age of 18 should have their blood pressure checked every
year. More frequent measurement may be needed for those with a history of high
blood pressure readings or those with risk factors for high blood pressure.

Cholesterol testing is recommended in all adults. The major national
guidelines differ on the suggested age to start testing.

    * Screening should begin between ages 20 to 35 for men and ages 20 to 45 for women.
    * Repeat testing is not needed for five years for most adults with normal cholesterol levels.
    * Repeat testing may be needed if lifestyle changes occur, such as large increase in weight or a change in diet.
    * More frequent testing is needed for adults with a history of high cholesterol, diabetes, kidney problems, heart disease, stroke, and other conditions 

A number of imaging tests may be used to see how well blood moves through your
arteries.

    * Doppler tests that use ultrasound or sound waves
    * Magnetic resonance arteriography (MRA), a special type of MRI scan
    * Special CT scans called CT angiography
    * Arteriograms or angiography that use x-rays and contrast material (sometimes called "dye") to see the path of blood flow inside the arteries 

## Treatment

Lifestyle changes will reduce your risk of atherosclerosis. Things you can do
include:

    * Quit smoking: This is the single most important change you can make to reduce your risk of heart disease and stroke.
    * Avoid fatty foods: Eat well-balanced meals that are low in fat and cholesterol. Include several daily servings of fruits and vegetables. Adding fish to your diet at least twice a week may be helpful. However, do not eat fried fish.
    * Limit how much alcohol you drink: Recommended limits are one drink a day for women, two a day for men.
    * Get regular physical activity: Exercise with moderate intensity (such as brisk walking) 5 days a week for 30 minutes a day if you are at a healthy weight. For weight loss, exercise for 60 to 90 minutes a day. Talk to your provider before starting a new exercise plan, especially if you have been diagnosed with heart disease or you have ever had a heart attack. 
![Prevention of heart
disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18019.jpg)

If your blood pressure is high, it is important for you to lower it and keep
it under control.

The goal of treatment is to reduce your blood pressure so that you have a
lower risk of health problems caused by high blood pressure. You and your
provider should set a blood pressure goal for you.

    * Do not stop or change high blood pressure medicines without talking to your provider. 

Your provider may want you to take medicine for abnormal cholesterol levels or
for high blood pressure if lifestyle changes do not work. This will depend on:

    * Your age
    * The medicines you take
    * Your risk of side effects from possible medicines
    * Whether you have heart disease or other blood flow problems
    * Whether you smoke or are overweight
    * Whether you have diabetes or other heart disease risk factors
    * Whether you have any other medical problems, such as kidney disease 

Your provider may suggest taking aspirin or another medicine to help prevent
blood clots from forming in your arteries. These medicines are called
antiplatelet drugs. DO NOT take aspirin without first talking to your
provider.

Losing weight if you are overweight and reducing blood sugar if you have
diabetes or pre-diabetes can help reduce the risk of developing
atherosclerosis.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Atherosclerosis cannot be reversed once it has occurred. However, lifestyle
changes and treating high cholesterol levels can prevent or slow the process
from becoming worse. This can help reduce the chances of having a heart attack
and stroke as a result of atherosclerosis.

## Possible Complications

In some cases, the plaque is part of a process that causes a weakening of the
wall of an artery. This can lead to a bulge in an artery called an aneurysm.
Aneurysms can break open (rupture). This causes bleeding that can be life
threatening.

## Alternative Names

Hardening of the arteries; Arteriosclerosis; Plaque buildup - arteries;
Hyperlipidemia - atherosclerosis; Cholesterol - atherosclerosis

## Patient Instructions

    * Abdominal aortic aneurysm repair - open - discharge 
    * Aortic aneurysm repair - endovascular - discharge
    * Aspirin and heart disease
    * Heart failure - discharge
    * Heart failure - what to ask your doctor 
    * High blood pressure - what to ask your doctor 
    * Type 2 diabetes - what to ask your doctor

## Images

    * ![Carotid stenosis - X-ray of the left artery](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1152t.jpg)Carotid stenosis - X-ray of the left artery
    * ![Carotid stenosis - X-ray of the right artery](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1153t.jpg)Carotid stenosis - X-ray of the right artery
    * ![Enlarged view of atherosclerosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18018t.jpg)Enlarged view of atherosclerosis
    * ![Prevention of heart disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18019t.jpg)Prevention of heart disease
    * ![Developmental process of atherosclerosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18020t.jpg)Developmental process of atherosclerosis
    * ![Angina](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18048t.jpg)Angina
    * ![Atherosclerosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18050t.jpg)Atherosclerosis
    * ![Cholesterol producers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19269t.jpg)Cholesterol producers
    * ![Coronary artery balloon angioplasty - Series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19001t.jpg)Coronary artery balloon angioplasty - series

## References

Ettehad D, Emdin CA, Kiran A, et al. Blood pressure lowering for prevention of
cardiovascular disease and death: a systematic review and meta-analysis.
_Lancet_. 2016;387(10022):957-967. PMID: 26724178
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26724178.

Genest J, Libby P. Lipoprotein disorders and cardiovascular disease. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 48.

Hansson GK, Hamsten A. Atherosclerosis, thrombosis, and vascular biology. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 70.

James PA, Oparil S, Carter BL, et al. 2014 evidence-based guideline for the
management of high blood pressure in adults: report from the panel members
appointed to the Eighth Joint National Committee (JNC 8). _JAMA_.
2014;311(5):507-520. PMID: 24352797 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24352797.

Libby P. The vascular biology of atherosclerosis. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow
RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A
Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2019:chap 44.

US Preventive Services Task Force. Final recommendation statement: statin use
for the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease in adults: preventive
medication. November 2016. Accessed March 20, 2018.
www.uspreventiveservicestaskforce.org/Page/Document/RecommendationStatementFinal/statin-
use-in-adults-preventive-medication1.

Whelton PK, Carey RM, Aronow WS, et al. 2017
ACC/AHA/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/AGS/APhA/ASH/ASPC/NMA/PCNA guideline for the prevention,
detection, evaluation, and management of high blood pressure in adults: a
report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task
Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol_.
2018;71(19):2199-2269. PMID: 2914653 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29146533.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.
Editorial update 09/04/2019.

![Atherosclerosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Atherosclerosis2_thumb.jpg)Atherosclerosis
_Read more_

![Coronary Artery
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CoronaryArteryDisease_thumb.jpg)Coronary
Artery Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

