Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000091.htm    
                                Description: Angioplasty is a procedure to open narrowed or blocked blood vessels that supply blood to the heart. These blood vessels are called the coronary arteries. A coronary artery stent is a small, metal mesh    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Angioplasty and stent - heart - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000091.htm

# Angioplasty and stent - heart - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Angioplasty is a procedure to open narrowed or blocked blood vessels that
supply blood to the heart. These blood vessels are called the coronary
arteries. A coronary artery stent is a small, metal mesh tube that expands
inside a coronary artery.

## When You're in the Hospital

You had angioplasty when you were in the hospital. You may have also had a
stent placed. Both of these were done to open narrowed or blocked coronary
arteries, the blood vessels that supply blood to your heart. You may have had
a heart attack or angina (chest pain) before the procedure.

## What to Expect at Home

You may have pain in your groin area, arm, or wrist. This is from the catheter
(flexible tube) that was inserted to do the procedure. You may also have some
bruising around and below the incision.

The chest pain and shortness of breath you likely had before the procedure
should be much better now.

## Self-care

In general, people who have angioplasty can walk around within 6 hours after
the procedure. Complete recovery takes a week or less. Keep the area where the
catheter was inserted dry for 24 to 48 hours.

If the doctor put the catheter in through your groin:

    * Walking short distances on a flat surface is OK. Limit going up and down stairs to around 2 times a day for the first 2 to 3 days.
    * DO NOT do yard work, drive, squat, carry heavy objects, or play sports for at least 2 days, or until your health care provider tells you it is safe. 

If the doctor put the catheter in your arm or wrist:

    * DO NOT lift anything heavier than 10 pounds (4.5 kilograms) (a little more than a gallon of milk) with the arm that had the catheter.
    * DO NOT do any heavy pushing, pulling or twisting with that arm. 

For a catheter in your groin, arm, or wrist:

    * Avoid sexual activity for 2 to 5 days. Ask your provider when it will be OK to start again.
    * DO NOT take a bath or swim for the first week. You may take showers, but make sure the area where the catheter was inserted does not get wet for the first 24 to 48 hours.
    * You should be able to return to work in 2 to 3 days if you do not do heavy work. 

You will need to care for your incision.

    * Your provider will tell you how often to change your dressing.
    * If your incision bleeds or swells up, lie down and put pressure on it for 30 minutes. 

Angioplasty does not cure the cause of the blockage in your arteries. Your
arteries may become narrow again. Eat a heart-healthy diet, exercise, stop
smoking (if you smoke), and reduce stress to help lower your chances of having
a blocked artery again. Your provider may give you medicine to help lower your
cholesterol.

Most people take aspirin together with another antiplatelet medicine such as
clopidogrel (Plavix), prasugrel (Efient), or ticagrelor (Brilinta) after this
procedure. These medicines are blood thinners. They keep your blood from
forming clots in your arteries and stent. A blood clot can lead to a heart
attack. Take the medicines exactly as your provider tells you. DO NOT stop
taking them without talking with your provider first.

You should know how to take care of your angina if it returns.

Make sure you have a follow-up appointment scheduled with your heart doctor
(cardiologist).

Your doctor may refer you to a cardiac rehabilitation program. This will help
you learn how to slowly increase your exercise. You will also learn how to
take care of your angina and care for yourself after a heart attack.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your doctor if:

    * There is bleeding at the catheter insertion site that does not stop when you apply pressure.
    * There is swelling at the catheter site.
    * Your leg or arm below where the catheter was inserted changes color, becomes cool to touch, or is numb.
    * The small incision for your catheter becomes red or painful, or yellow or green discharge is draining from it.
    * You have chest pain or shortness of breath that does not go away with rest.
    * Your pulse feels irregular -- very slow (fewer than 60 beats), or very fast (over 100 to 120 beats) a minute.
    * You have dizziness, fainting, or you are very tired.
    * You are coughing up blood or yellow or green mucus.
    * You have problems taking any of your heart medicines.
    * You have chills or a fever over 101Â°FÂ (38.3Â°C).

## Alternative Names

Drug-eluting stents - discharge; PCI - discharge; Percutaneous coronary
intervention - discharge; Balloon angioplasty - discharge; Coronary
angioplasty - discharge; Coronary artery angioplasty - discharge; Cardiac
angioplasty - discharge; PTCA - discharge; Percutaneous transluminal coronary
angioplasty - discharge; Heart artery dilatation - discharge; Angina
angioplasty - discharge; Heart attack angioplasty - discharge; CAD angioplasty
- discharge

## Images

    * ![Coronary artery stent](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22940t.jpg)Coronary artery stent

## References

Amsterdam EA, Wenger NK, Brindis RG, et al. 2014 AHA/ACC guideline for the
management of patients with non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndromes: a
report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task
Force on practice guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2014;64(24):e139-e228.
PMID: 25260718 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25260718.

Fihn SD, Gardin JM, Abrams J, et al. 2012 ACCF/AHA/ACP/AATS/PCNA/SCAI/STS
guideline for the diagnosis and management of patients with stable ischemic
heart disease: a report of the American College of Cardiology
Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on practice guidelines, and
the American College of Physicians, American Association for Thoracic Surgery,
Preventive Cardiovascular Nurses Association, Society for Cardiovascular
Angiography and Interventions, and Society of Thoracic Surgeons.
_Circulation_. 2012;126(25):e354-e471. PMID: 23166211
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23166211.

Mehran R, Dangas GD. Coronary angiography and intravascular imaging. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 20.Â

O'Gara PT, Kushner FG, Ascheim DD, et al. 2013 ACCF/AHA guideline for the
management of ST-elevation myocardial infarction: executive summary: a report
of the American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association
Task Force on practice guidelines. _Circulation_. 2013;127(4):529-555. PMID:
23247303 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23247303.

## Read More

    * Angina
    * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery
    * Heart attack
    * Heart bypass surgery
    * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive
    * High blood cholesterol levels
    * High blood pressure - adults
    * Stent
    * Tips on how to quit smoking
    * Unstable angina

## Patient Instructions

    * ACE inhibitors
    * Angina - discharge
    * Angina - what to ask your doctor 
    * Angina - when you have chest pain
    * Angioplasty and stent - heart - discharge 
    * Antiplatelet drugs - P2Y12 inhibitors
    * Aspirin and heart disease
    * Being active after your heart attack
    * Being active when you have heart disease
    * Butter, margarine, and cooking oils
    * Cardiac catheterization - discharge 
    * Cholesterol and lifestyle
    * Controlling your high blood pressure
    * Dietary fats explained
    * Fast food tips
    * Heart attack - discharge
    * Heart attack - what to ask your doctor
    * Heart disease - risk factors
    * How to read food labels
    * Mediterranean diet

## Review Date 7/25/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Angioplasty
    * Coronary Artery Disease

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

