Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007201.htm    
                                Description: Nuclear stress test is an imaging method that uses radioactive material to show how well blood flows into the heart muscle, both at rest and during activity.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nuclear stress test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007201.htm

# Nuclear stress test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Nuclear stress test is an imaging method that uses radioactive material to
show how well blood flows into the heart muscle, both at rest and during
activity.

## How the Test is Performed

This test is done at a medical center or health care provider's office. It is
done in stages:

You will have an intravenous (IV) line started.

    * A radioactive substance, such as thallium or sestamibi, will be injected into one of your veins.
    * You will lie down and wait for between 15 and 45 minutes.
    * A special camera will scan your heart and create pictures to show how the substance has traveled through your blood and into your heart. 

Most people will then walk on a treadmill (or pedal on an exercise machine).

    * After the treadmill starts moving slowly, you will be asked to walk (or pedal) faster and on an incline.
    * If you are not able to exercise, you may be given a medicine called a vasodilator (such as adenosine or persantine). This drug widens (dilates) your heart arteries.
    * In other cases, you may get a medicine (dobutamine) that will make your heart beat faster and harder, similar to when you exercise. 

Your blood pressure and heart rhythm (ECG) will be watched throughout the
test.

When your heart is working as hard as it can, a radioactive substance is again
injected into one of your veins.

    * You will wait for 15 to 45 minutes.
    * Again, the special camera will scan your heart and create pictures.
    * You may be allowed to get up from the table or chair and have a snack or drink. 

Your provider will compare the first and second set of pictures using a
computer. This can help detect if you have heart disease or if your heart
disease is becoming worse.

![Nuclear scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19100.jpg)

## How to Prepare for the Test

You should wear comfortable clothes and shoes with non-skid soles. You may be
asked not to eat or drink after midnight. You will be allowed to have a few
sips of water if you need to take medicines.

You will need to avoid caffeine for 24 hours before the test. This includes:

    * Tea and coffee
    * All sodas, even ones that are labeled caffeine-free
    * Chocolates, and certain pain relievers that contain caffeine 

Many medicines can interfere with blood test results.

    * Your provider will tell you if you need to stop taking any medicines before you have this test.
    * DO NOT stop or change your medicines without talking to your doctor first. 

## How the Test will Feel

During the test, some people feel:

    * Chest pain
    * Fatigue
    * Muscle cramps in the legs or feet
    * Shortness of breath 

If you are given the vasodilator drug, you may feel a sting as the medicine is
injected. This is followed by a feeling of warmth. Some people also have a
headache, nausea, and a feeling that their heart is racing.

If you are given medicine to make your heart beat stronger and faster
(dobutamine), you may have a headache, nausea, or your heart may pound faster
and more strongly.

Rarely, during the test people experience:

    * Chest discomfort
    * Dizziness
    * Palpitations
    * Shortness of breath 

If any of these symptoms occur during your test, tell the person performing
the test right away.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is done to see if your heart muscle is getting enough blood flow and
oxygen when it is working hard (under stress).

Your provider may order this test to find out:

    * How well a treatment (medicines, angioplasty, or heart surgery) is working.
    * If you are at high risk for heart disease or complications.
    * If you are planning to start an exercise program or have surgery.
    * The cause of new chest pain or worsening angina.
    * What you can expect after you have had a heart attack.Â 

The results of a nuclear stress test can help:

    * Determine how well your heart is pumping
    * Determine the proper treatment for coronary heart disease
    * Diagnose coronary artery disease
    * See whether your heart is too large 

## Normal Results

A normal test most often means that you were able to exercise as long as or
longer than most people of your age and gender. You also did not have symptoms
or changes in blood pressure, your ECG or the images of your heart that caused
concern.

A normal result means blood flow through the coronary arteries is probably
normal.

The meaning of your test results depends on the reason for the test, your age,
and your history of heart and other medical problems.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

    * Reduced blood flow to a part of the heart. The most likely cause is a narrowing or blockage of one or more of the arteries that supply your heart muscle.
    * Scarring of the heart muscle due to a previous heart attack. 

After the test you may need:

    * Angioplasty and stent placement
    * Changes in your heart medicines
    * Coronary angiography
    * Heart bypass surgery

## Risks

Complications are rare, but may include:

    * Arrhythmias
    * Increased angina pain during the test
    * Breathing problems or asthma-like reactions
    * Extreme swings in blood pressure
    * Skin rashes 

Your provider will explain the risks before the test.

## Considerations

In some cases, other organs and structures can cause false-positive results.
However, special steps can be taken to avoid this problem.

You may need additional tests, such as cardiac catheterization, depending on
your test results.

## Alternative Names

Sestamibi stress test; MIBI stress test; Myocardial perfusion scintigraphy;
Dobutamine stress test; Persantine stress test; Thallium stress test; Stress
test - nuclear; Adenosine stress test; Regadenoson stress test; CAD - nuclear
stress; Coronary artery disease - nuclear stress; Angina - nuclear stress;
Chest pain - nuclear stress

## Images

    * ![Nuclear scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19100t.jpg)Nuclear scan
    * ![Anterior heart arteries](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9367t.jpg)Anterior heart arteries

## References

Amsterdam EA, Wenger NK, Brindis RG, et al. 2014 AHA/ACC guideline for the
management of patients with non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndromes: a
report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task
Force on Practice Guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2014;64(24):e139-e228.
PMID: 25260718 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25260718.

Fihn SD, Blankenship JC, Alexander KP, et al. 2014 ACC/AHA/AATS/PCNA/SCAI/STS
focused update of the guideline for the diagnosis and management of patients
with stable ischemic heart disease: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines, and
the American Association for Thoracic Surgery, Preventive Cardiovascular
Nurses Association, Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions,
and Society of Thoracic Surgeons. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2014;64(18):1929-1949.
PMID: 25077860 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25077860.

Kramer CM, Beller GA, Hagspiel KD. Noninvasive cardiac imaging. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 56.

Udelson JE, Dilsizian V, Bono RO. Nuclear cardiology. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 16.

## Review Date 6/18/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Coronary Artery
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CoronaryArteryDisease_thumb.jpg)Coronary
Artery Disease _Read more_

![Nuclear Scans](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NuclearScans_thumb.jpg)Nuclear
Scans _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

