Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007639.htm    
                                Description: Acute coronary syndrome is a term for a group of conditions that suddenly stop or severely reduce blood from flowing to the heart. When blood cannot flow to the heart, the heart muscle can become damaged.Â Heart    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Acute coronary syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007639.htm

# Acute coronary syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Acute coronary syndrome is a term for a group of conditions that suddenly stop
or severely reduce blood from flowing to the heart. When blood cannot flow to
the heart, the heart muscle can become damaged.Â Heart attack and unstable
angina are both acute coronary syndromes (ACS).

## Causes

A fatty substance called plaque can build up in the arteries that bring
oxygen-rich blood to your heart. Plaque is made up of cholesterol, fat, cells,
and other substances.

Plaque can block blood flow in 2 ways:

    * It can cause an artery to become so narrow over time that it becomes blocked enough to cause symptoms.
    * The plaque tears suddenly and a blood clot forms around it, severely narrowing or blocking the artery. 

Many risk factors for heart disease may lead to an ACS.

## Symptoms

The most common symptom of ACS is chest pain. The chest pain may come on
quickly, come and go, or get worse with rest. Other symptoms can include:

    * Pain in the shoulder, arm, neck, jaw, back, or belly area
    * Discomfort that feels like tightness, squeezing, crushing, burning, choking, or aching
    * Discomfort that occurs at rest and does not easily go away when you take medicine
    * Shortness of breath
    * Anxiety
    * Nausea
    * Sweating
    * Feeling dizzy or lightheaded
    * Fast or irregular heartbeat 

Women and older people often experience these other symptoms, although chest
pain is common for them as well.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will do an exam, listen to your chest with a
stethoscope, and ask about your medical history.

Tests for ACS include:

    * Electrocardiogram (ECG) \-- An ECG is usually the first test your doctor will run. It measures your heart's electrical activity. During the test, you will have small pads taped to your chest and other areas of your body.
    * Blood test -- Some blood tests help show the cause of chest pain and see if you are at a high risk for a heart attack. A troponin blood test can show if the cells in your heart have been damaged. This test can confirm you are having a heart attack.
    * Echocardiogram \-- This test uses sound waves to look at your heart. It shows if your heart has been damaged and can find some types of heart problems. 

Coronary angiography may be done right away or when you are more stable. This
test:

    * Uses a special dye and x-rays to see how blood flows through your heart
    * Can help your provider decide which treatments you need nextÂ 

Other tests to look at your heart that may be done while you are in the
hospital include:

    * Exercise stress test
    * Nuclear stress test
    * Stress echocardiography

## Treatment

Your provider may use medicines, surgery, or other procedures to treat your
symptoms and restore blood flow to your heart. Your treatment depends on your
condition and the amount of blockage in your arteries. Your treatment may
include:

    * Medicine -- Your provider may give you one or more types of medicine, including aspirin, beta blockers, statins, blood thinners, clot dissolving drugs, Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, or nitroglycerin. These medicines may help prevent or break up a blood clot, treat high blood pressure or angina, relieve chest pain, and stabilize your heart.
    * Angioplasty \-- This procedure opens the clogged artery using a long, thin tube called a catheter. The tube is placed in the artery and the provider inserts a small deflated balloon. The balloon is inflated inside the artery to open it up. Your doctor may insert a wire tube, called a stent, to keep the artery open.
    * Bypass surgery \-- This is surgery to route the blood around the artery that is blocked.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well you do after an ACS depends on:

    * How quickly you get treated
    * The number of arteries that are blocked and how bad the blockage is
    * Whether or not your heart has been damaged, as well as the extent and location of the damage, and where the damage is

In general, the quicker your artery gets unblocked, the less damage you will
have to your heart. People tend to do best when the blocked artery is opened
within a few hours from the time symptoms start.

## Possible Complications

In some cases, ACS can lead to other health problems including:

    * Abnormal heart rhythms
    * Death
    * Heart attack
    * Heart failure, which happens when the heart cannot pump enough blood
    * Rupture of part of the heart muscle causing tamponade or severe valve leakage
    * Stroke

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

An ACS is a medical emergency. If you have symptoms, call 911 or your local
emergency number quickly.

DO NOT:

    * Try to drive yourself to the hospital.
    * WAIT -- If you are having a heart attack, you are at greatest risk for sudden death in the early hours. 

## Prevention

There is a lot you can do to help prevent ACS.

    * Eat a heart-healthy diet. Have plenty of fruits, veggies, whole grains, and lean meats. Try to limit foods high in cholesterol and saturated fats, since too much of these substances can clog your arteries.
    * Get exercise. Aim to get at least 30 minutes of moderate exercise most days of the week.
    * Lose weight, if you are overweight.
    * Quit smoking. Smoking can damage your heart. Ask your doctor if you need help quitting.
    * Get preventive health screenings. You should see your doctor for regular cholesterol and blood pressure tests and learn how to keep your numbers in check.
    * Manage health conditions, such as high blood pressure, high cholesterol, or diabetes. 

## Alternative Names

Heart attack - ACS; Myocardial infarction - ACS; MI - ACS; Acute MI - ACS; ST
elevation myocardial infarction - ACS; Non ST-elevation myocardial infarction
- ACS; Unstable angina - ACS; Accelerating angina - ACS; Angina - unstable-
ACS; Progressive angina

## References

Amsterdam EA, Wenger NK, Brindis RG, et al. 2014 AHA/ACC guideline for the
management of patients with non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndromes: a
report of the American College of Cardiology/ American Heart Association Task
Force on Practice Guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2014;64(24):e139-e228.
PMID: 25260718 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25260718.

Bohula EA, Morrow DA. ST-elevation myocardial infarction: management. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 59.

Eckel RH, Jakicic JM, Ard JD, et al. 2013 AHA/ACC guideline on lifestyle
management to reduce cardiovascular risk: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines.
_Circulation_. 2014;129(25 Suppl 2):S76-S99. PMID: 24222015
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24222015.

Giugliano RP, Braunwald E. Non-ST elevation acute coronary syndromes. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 60.

O'Gara PT, Kushner FG, Ascheim DD, et al. 2013 ACCF/AHA guideline for the
management of ST-elevation myocardial infarction: executive summary: a report
of the American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association
Task Force on Practice Guidelines. _Circulation_. 2013;127(4):529-555. PMID:
23247303 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23247303.

Scirica BM, Libby P, Morrow DA. ST-elevation myocardial infarction:
pathophysiology and clinical evolution. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann
DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of
Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 58.

Smith SC Jr, Benjamin EJ, Bonow RO, et al. AHA/ACCF secondary prevention and
risk reduction therapy for patients with coronary and other atherosclerotic
vascular disease: 2011 update: a guideline from the American Heart Association
and American College of Cardiology Foundation. _Circulation_.
2011;124(22):2458-2473. PMID: 22052934 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22052934.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Angina](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Angina_thumb.jpg)Angina _Read more_

![Coronary Artery
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CoronaryArteryDisease_thumb.jpg)Coronary
Artery Disease _Read more_

![Heart Attack](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartAttack_thumb.jpg)Heart
Attack _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

