Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000576.htm    
                                Description: Coronary heart disease (CHD) is a narrowing of the small blood vessels that supply blood and oxygen to the heart. Angina is chest pain or discomfort that most often occurs when you do certain activities    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Living with heart disease and angina

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000576.htm

# Living with heart disease and angina

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Coronary heart disease (CHD) is a narrowing of the small blood vessels that
supply blood and oxygen to the heart. Angina is chest pain or discomfort that
most often occurs when you do certain activities or feel stressed. This
article discusses what you can do to manage chest pain and reduce your risks
from heart disease.

## Heart Disease and Angina

CHD is a narrowing of the small blood vessels that supply blood and oxygen to
the heart.

Angina is chest pain or discomfort that most often occurs when you do certain
activities or feel stressed. It is caused by poor blood flow through the blood
vessels of the heart muscle.

If you have high blood pressure, diabetes, or high cholesterol, your health
care provider may advise you to:

    * Keep your blood pressure controlled most often to 130/80. Lower may be better if you have diabetes, kidney disease, stroke, or heart problems, but your provider will give you your specific targets.
    * Take medicines to reduce your cholesterol.
    * Keep your HbA1c and blood sugar at recommended levels. 

## Living a Healthy Lifestyle

Some controllable risk factors for heart disease are:

    *  **Drinking alcohol.** If you drink, limit yourself to no more than 1 drink a day for women, or 2 a day for men.
    *  **Emotional health.** Get checked and treated for depression, if needed.
    *  **Exercise.** Get plenty of aerobic exercise, such as walking, swimming, or bicycling, at least 40 minutes a day, at least 3 to 4 days a week.
    *  **Smoking.** DO NOT smoke or use tobacco.
    *  **Stress.** Avoid or reduce stress as much as you can.
    *  **Weight.** Maintain a healthy weight. Strive for a body mass index (BMI) between 18.5 and 24.9 and a waist smaller than 35 inches (90 centimeters). 

## Eating a Healthy Diet

Good nutrition is important for your heart health. Healthy eating habits will
help you control some of your risk factors for heart disease.

    * Eat plenty of fruits, vegetables, and whole grains.
    * Choose lean proteins, such as skinless chicken, fish, and beans.
    * Eat non-fat or low-fat dairy products, such as skim milk and low-fat yogurt.
    * Avoid foods that contain high levels of sodium (salt).
    * Read food labels. Avoid foods that contain saturated fat and partially hydrogenated or hydrogenated fats. These are unhealthy fats that are often found in fried foods, processed foods, and baked goods.
    * Eat fewer foods that contain cheese, cream, or eggs. 
![Healthy diet](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19492.jpg)

## Taking Your Medicines

Your provider may prescribe medicine to treat CHD, high blood pressure,
diabetes, or high cholesterol levels. These may include:

    * ACE inhibitors
    * Beta-blockers
    * Calcium channel blockers
    * Diuretics (water pills)
    * Statins to lower cholesterol
    * Nitroglycerin pills or spray to prevent or stop an angina attack 

To reduce the risk of a heart attack, you may also be told to take aspirin,
clopidogrel (Plavix), ticagrelor (Brilinta) or prasugrel (Effient) every day.
Follow your provider's directions carefully to keep heart disease and angina
from getting worse.

Always talk to your provider before you stop taking any of your medicines.
Stopping these drugs suddenly or changing your dose can make your angina worse
or cause a heart attack.

## A Plan to Manage Angina

Create a plan with your provider for managing your angina. Your plan should
include:

    * What activities are OK for you to do, and which ones are not
    * What medicines you should take when you have angina
    * What are the signs that your angina is getting worse
    * When you should call your provider or 9-1-1 

Know what can make your angina worse, and try to avoid these things. For
example, some people find that cold weather, exercising, eating large meals,
or getting upset or stressed worsens their angina.

## Alternative Names

Coronary artery disease - living with; CAD - living with; Chest pain - living
with

## Images

    * ![Healthy diet](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19492t.jpg)Healthy diet

## References

Eckel RH, Jakicic JM, Ard JD, et al. 2013 AHA/ACC guideline on lifestyle
management to reduce cardiovascular risk: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on practice guidelines. _J Am
Coll Cardiol_. 2014;63(25 Pt B):2960-2984. PMID: 24239922
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24239922.

Fihn SD, Blankenship JC, Alexander KP, et al. 2014 ACC/AHA/AATS/PCNA/SCAI/STS
focused update of the guideline for the diagnosis and management of patients
with stable ischemic heart disease: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines, and
the American Association for Thoracic Surgery, Preventive Cardiovascular
Nurses Association, Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions,
and Society of Thoracic Surgeons. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2014;64(18):1929-1949.
PMID: 25077860 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25077860.

Morrow DA, de Lemos JA. Stable ischemic heart disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 61.

Mozaffarian D. Nutrition and cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 49.Â

Stone NJ, Robinson JG, Lichtenstein AH, et al. 2013 ACC/AHA guideline on the
treatment of blood cholesterol to reduce atherosclerotic cardiovascular risk
in adults: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart
Association Task Force on practice guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2014;63(25
Pt B):2889-2934. PMID: 24239923 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24239923.

Thompson PD, Ades PA. Exercise-based, comprehensive cardiac rehabilitation.
In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 54.

## Review Date 7/25/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Angina
    * Coronary Artery Disease

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

