Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000159.htm    
                                Description: The coronary arteries supply blood and oxygen to the heart. Coronary artery spasm is a brief, sudden narrowing of one of these arteries.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Coronary artery spasm

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000159.htm

# Coronary artery spasm

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The coronary arteries supply blood and oxygen to the heart. Coronary artery
spasm is a brief, sudden narrowing of one of these arteries.

![Coronary artery
spasm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18130.jpg)

## Causes

The spasm often occurs in coronary arteries that have not become hardened due
to plaque buildup. However, it also can occur in arteries with plaque buildup.

These spasms are due to a squeezing of muscles in the artery wall. They most
often occur in just one area of the artery. The coronary artery may appear
normal during testing, but it does not function normally at other times.

About 2% of people with angina (chest pain and pressure) have coronary artery
spasm.

![Angina](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18048.jpg)

Coronary artery spasm occurs most commonly in people who smoke or who have
high cholesterol or high blood pressure. It may occur without cause, or it may
be triggered by:

    * Alcohol withdrawal
    * Emotional stress
    * Exposure to cold
    * Medicines that cause narrowing of the blood vessels (vasoconstriction)
    * Stimulant drugs, such as amphetamines and cocaine 

Cocaine use and cigarette smoking can cause severe spasms of the arteries.
This causes the heart to work harder. In many people, coronary artery spasm
may occur without any other heart risk factors (such as smoking, diabetes,
high blood pressure, and high cholesterol).

## Symptoms

Spasm may be "silent" (without symptoms) or it may result in chest pain or
angina. If the spasm lasts long enough, it may even cause a heart attack.

The main symptom is a type of chest pain called angina. This pain is most
often felt under the chest bone (sternum) or left side of the chest. The pain
is described as:

    * Constricting
    * Crushing
    * Pressure
    * Squeezing
    * Tightness 

It is most often severe. The pain may spread to the neck, jaw, shoulder, or
arm.

The pain of coronary artery spasm:

    * Often occurs at rest
    * May occur at the same time each day, usually between midnight and 8:00 a.m.
    * Lasts from 5 to 30 minutes 

The person may lose consciousness.

Unlike angina that is caused by hardening of the coronary arteries, chest pain
and shortness of breath due to coronary artery spasm are often not present
when you walk or exercise.

## Exams and Tests

Tests to diagnose coronary artery spasm may include:

    * Coronary angiography
    * ECG
    * Echocardiography 

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to control chest pain and prevent a heart attack. A
medicine called nitroglycerin (NTG) can relieve an episode of pain.

Your health care provider may prescribe other medicines to prevent chest pain.
You may need a type of medicine called a calcium channel blocker or a long-
acting nitrate long-term.

Beta-blockers are another type of medicine that is used with other coronary
artery problems. However, beta-blockers may make this problem worse. They
should be used with care.

If you have this condition, you should avoid coronary artery spasm triggers.
These include exposure to cold, cocaine use, cigarette smoking, and high-
stress situations.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Coronary artery spasm is a long-term (chronic) condition. However, treatment
most often helps control symptoms.

The disorder may be a sign that you have a high risk for heart attack or
deadly irregular heart rhythms. The outlook is most often good if you follow
your treatment, your provider's advice, and avoid certain triggers.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Abnormal heart rhythms, which may cause cardiac arrest and sudden death
    * Heart attack 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Immediately call your local emergency number (such as 911) or go to the
hospital emergency room if you have a history of angina and the crushing or
squeezing chest pain is not relieved by nitroglycerin. The pain may be due to
a heart attack. Rest and nitroglycerin often do not completely relieve the
pain of a heart attack.

A heart attack is a medical emergency. If you have symptoms of a heart attack,
seek medical help right away.

## Prevention

Take steps to reduce your risk of developing heart disease. This includes not
smoking, eating a low-fat diet, and increasing exercise.

![Prevention of heart
disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18019.jpg)

## Alternative Names

Variant angina; Angina - variant; Prinzmetal's angina; Vasospastic angina;
Chest pain - Prinzmetal's

## Patient Instructions

    * Angina - discharge
    * Angina - what to ask your doctor 
    * Angina - when you have chest pain

## Images

    * ![Angina](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18048t.jpg)Angina
    * ![Coronary artery spasm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18130t.jpg)Coronary artery spasm
    * ![Artery cut section](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19194t.jpg)Artery cut section
    * ![Prevention of heart disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18019t.jpg)Prevention of heart disease

## References

Amsterdam EA, Wenger NK, Brindis RG, et al. 2014 AHA/ACC guideline for the
management of patients with non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndromes:
executive summary: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American
Heart Association Task Force on practice guidelines. _Circulation_.
2014;130(25):2354-2394. PMID: 25249586 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25249586.

Boden WE. Angina pectoris and stable ischemic heart disease. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 62.

Giugliano RP, Braunwald E. Non-ST elevation acute coronary syndromes. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 60.

## Review Date 1/27/2020

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Angina](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Angina_thumb.jpg)Angina _Read more_

![Coronary Artery
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CoronaryArteryDisease_thumb.jpg)Coronary
Artery Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

