Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007269.htm    
                                Description: Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) is an MRI exam of the blood vessels. Unlike traditional angiography that involves placing a tube (catheter) into the body, MRA is noninvasive.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Magnetic resonance angiography

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007269.htm

# Magnetic resonance angiography

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) is an MRI exam of the blood vessels.
Unlike traditional angiography that involves placing a tube (catheter) into
the body, MRA is noninvasive.

## How the Test is Performed

You may be asked to wear a hospital gown. You can also wear clothing without
metal fasteners (such as sweatpants and a t-shirt). Certain types of metal can
cause blurry images.

You will lie on a narrow table, which slides into a large tunnel-shaped
scanner.

Some exams require a special dye (contrast). Most often, the dye is given
before the test through a vein (IV) in your hand or forearm. The dye helps the
radiologist see certain areas more clearly.

During the MRI, the person who operates the machine will watch you from
another room. The test may take 1 hour or more.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You may be asked not to eat or drink anything for 4 to 6 hours before the
scan.

Tell your health care provider if you are afraid of close spaces (have
claustrophobia). You may be given a medicine to help you feel sleepy and less
anxious. Your provider may suggest an "open" MRI. In open MRI, the machine is
not as close to the body.

Before the test, tell your provider if you have:

    * Brain aneurysm clips
    * Artificial heart valve
    * Heart defibrillator or pacemaker
    * Inner ear (cochlear) implants
    * Insulin or chemotherapy port
    * Intrauterine device (IUD)
    * Kidney disease or dialysis (you may not be able to receive contrast)
    * Neurostimulator
    * Recently placed artificial joints
    * Vascular stent
    * Worked with sheet metal in the past (you may need tests to check for metal pieces in your eyes)

Because the MRI contains strong magnets, metal objects are not allowed into
the room with the MRI scanner. Avoid carrying items such as:

    * Pocketknives, pens, and eyeglasses
    * Watches, credit cards, jewelry, and hearing aids
    * Hairpins, metal zippers, pins, and similar items
    * Removable dental implants

## How the Test will Feel

An MRA exam causes no pain. If you have problems lying still or are very
nervous, you may be given a medicine (sedative) to relax you. Moving too much
can blur images and cause errors.

The table may be hard or cold, but you can ask for a blanket or pillow. The
machine produces loud thumping and humming noises when turned on. You can wear
ear plugs to help reduce the noise.

An intercom in the room allows you to speak to someone at any time. Some
scanners have televisions and special headphones that you can use to help the
time pass.

There is no recovery time, unless you were given a medicine to relax.

## Why the Test is Performed

MRA is used to look at the blood vessels in all parts of the body. The test
may be done for the head, heart, abdomen, lungs, kidneys, and legs.

It may be used to diagnose or evaluate conditions such as:

    * Arterial aneurysm (an abnormal widening or ballooning of a part of an artery due to weakness in the wall of the blood vessel) 
    * Aortic coarctation
    * Aortic dissection
    * Stroke
    * Carotid artery disease
    * Atherosclerosis of the arms or legs 
    * Heart disease, including congenital heart disease 
    * Mesenteric artery ischemia
    * Renal artery stenosis (narrowing of the blood vessels in the kidneys) 

## Normal Results

A normal result means the blood vessels do not show any signs of narrowing or
blockage.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result suggests a problem with one or more blood vessels. This may
suggest:

    * Atherosclerosis
    * Trauma
    * Congenital disease
    * Other vascular condition

## Risks

MRA is generally safe. It uses no radiation. To date, no side effects from the
magnetic fields and radio waves have been reported.

The most common type of contrast used contains gadolinium. It is very safe.
Allergic reactions to the substance rarely occur. However, gadolinium can be
harmful to people with kidney problems who require dialysis. If you have
kidney problems, please tell your provider before the test.

The strong magnetic fields created during an MRI can cause heart pacemakers
and other implants to not work as well. They can also cause a piece of metal
inside your body to move or shift.

## Alternative Names

MRA; Angiography - magnetic resonance

## Images

    * ![MRI scans](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1107t.jpg)MRI scans

## References

Carpenter JP, Litt H, Gowda M. Magnetic resonance imaging and arteriography.
In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA, eds. _Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular
Therapy_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 28.

Kwong RY. Cardiovascular magnetic resonance imaging. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 17.

## Review Date 6/10/2018

Updated by: Deepak Sudheendra, MD, FSIR, RPVI, Assistant Professor of
Interventional Radiology & Surgery at the University of Pennsylvania Perelman
School of Medicine, with an expertise in Vascular Interventional Radiology &
Surgical Critical Care, Philadelphia, PA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Aneurysms](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AneurysmsandAorticAneurysm_thumb.jpg)Aneurysms
_Read more_

![Aneurysms](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AneurysmsandAorticAneurysm_thumb.jpg)Aortic
Aneurysm _Read more_

![Atherosclerosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Atherosclerosis2_thumb.jpg)Atherosclerosis
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

