Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001270.htm    
                                Description: Urge incontinence occurs when you have a strong, sudden need to urinate that is difficult to delay. The bladder then squeezes, or spasms, and you lose urine.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urge incontinence

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001270.htm

# Urge incontinence

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Urge incontinence occurs when you have a strong, sudden need to urinate that
is difficult to delay. The bladder then squeezes, or spasms, and you lose
urine.

## Causes

As your bladder fills with urine from the kidneys, it stretches to make room
for the urine. You should feel the first urge to urinate when there is a bit
less than 1 cup (240 milliliters) of urine in your bladder. Most people can
hold more than 2 cups (480 milliliters) of urine in the bladder.

Two muscles help prevent the flow of urine:

    * The sphincter is a muscle around the opening of the bladder. It squeezes to prevent urine from leaking into the urethra. This is the tube that urine passes through from your bladder to the outside.
    * The bladder wall muscle relaxes so the bladder can expand and hold urine. 

When you urinate, the bladder wall muscle squeezes to force urine out of the
bladder. As this happens, the sphincter muscle relaxes to allow the urine to
pass through.

All of these systems must work together to control urination:

    * Your bladder muscles and other parts of your urinary tract
    * The nerves controlling your urinary system
    * Your ability to feel and respond to the urge to urinate 

The bladder may contract too often from nervous system problems or bladder
irritation.

![Bladder function - neurological
control](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200038t.gif)Watch this
video about:Bladder function - neurological control

URGE INCONTINENCE

With urge incontinence, you leak urine because the bladder muscles squeeze, or
contract, at the wrong times. These contractions often occur no matter how
much urine is in the bladder.

Urge incontinence may result from:

    * Bladder cancer
    * Bladder inflammation
    * Something blocking urine from leaving the bladder
    * Bladder stones
    * Infection
    * Brain or nerve problems, such as multiple sclerosis or stroke
    * Nerve injury, such as from a spinal cord injury 

In men, urge incontinence also may be due to:

    * Bladder changes caused by an enlarged prostate, called benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH)
    * An enlarged prostate blocking urine from flowing from the bladder 

In most cases of urge incontinence, no cause can be found.

Although urge incontinence may occur in anyone at any age, it is more common
in women and older adults.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Not being able to control when you pass urine
    * Having to urinate often during the day and night
    * Needing to urinate suddenly and urgently

## Exams and Tests

During a physical exam, your health care provider will look at your belly and
rectum.

    * Women will have a pelvic exam.
    * Men will have a genital exam. 

In most cases, the physical exam will not find any problems. If there are
nervous system causes, other problems also may be found.

Tests include the following:

    * Cystoscopy to view the inside of your bladder.
    * Pad test. You wear a pad or pads to collect all of your leaked urine. Then the pad is weighed to find out how much urine you lost.
    * Pelvic or abdominal ultrasound.
    * Uroflow study to see how much and how fast you urinate.
    * Post void residual to measure the amount of urine left in your bladder after you urinate.
    * Urinalysis to check for blood in the urine.
    * Urine culture to check for infection.
    * Urinary stress test (you stand with a full bladder and cough).
    * Urine cytology to rule out bladder cancer.
    * Urodynamic studies to measure pressure and urine flow.
    * X-rays with contrast dye to look at your kidneys and bladder.
    * Voiding diary to assess your fluid intake, urine output, and urination frequency. 

## Treatment

Treatment depends on how bad your symptoms are and how they affect your life.

There are four main treatment approaches for urge incontinence:

    * Bladder and pelvic floor muscle training
    * Lifestyle changes
    * Medicines
    * Surgery 

BLADDER RETRAINING

Managing urge incontinence most often begins with bladder retraining. This
helps you become aware of when you lose urine because of bladder spasms. Then
you relearn the skills you need to hold and release urine.

    * You set a schedule of times when you should try to urinate. You try to avoid urination between these times.
    * One method is to force yourself to wait 30 minutes between trips to the bathroom, even if you have an urge to urinate in between these times. This may not be possible in some cases.
    * As you become better at waiting, gradually increase the time by 15 minutes until you are urinating every 3 to 4 hours. 

PELVIC FLOOR MUSCLE TRAINING

Sometimes, Kegel exercises, biofeedback, or electrical stimulation may be used
with bladder retraining. These methods help strengthen the muscles of your
pelvic floor:

Kegel exercises -- These are mainly used to treat people with stress
incontinence. However, these exercises may also help relieve the symptoms of
urge incontinence.

    * You squeeze your pelvic floor muscles like you are trying to stop the flow of urine.
    * Do this for 3 to 5 seconds, and then relax for 5 seconds.
    * Repeat 10 times, 3 times a day. 

Vaginal cones -- This is a weighted cone that is inserted into the vagina to
strengthen the pelvic floor muscles.

    * You place the cone into the vagina.
    * Then you try to squeeze your pelvic floor muscles to hold the cone in place.
    * You can wear the cone for up to 15 minutes at a time, 2 times a day. 

Biofeedback -- This method can help you learn to identify and control your
pelvic floor muscles.

    * Some therapists place a sensor in the vagina (for women) or the anus (for men) so they can tell when they are squeezing the pelvic floor muscles.
    * A monitor will display a graph showing which muscles are squeezing and which are at rest.
    * The therapist can help you find the right muscles for performing Kegel exercises. 

Electrical stimulation -- This uses a gentle electrical current to contract
your bladder muscles.

    * The current is delivered using an anal or vaginal probe.
    * This therapy may be done at the provider's office or at home.
    * Treatment sessions usually last 20 minutes and may be done every 1 to 4 days. 

Percutaneous tibial nerve stimulation (PTNS) -- This treatment may help some
people with overactive bladder.

    * An acupuncture needle is placed behind the ankle, and electrical stimulation is used for 30 minutes.
    * Most often, treatments will occur weekly for around 12 weeks, and perhaps monthly after that. 

LIFESTYLE CHANGES

Pay attention to how much water you drink and when you drink.

    * Drinking enough water will help keep odors away.
    * Drink a little bit of fluid at a time throughout the day, so your bladder does not need to handle a large amount of urine at one time. Drink less than 8 ounces (240 milliliters) at one time.
    * Do not drink large amounts of fluids with meals.
    * Sip small amounts of fluids between meals.
    * Stop drinking fluids about 2 hours before bedtime. 

It also may help to stop consuming foods or drinks that may irritate the
bladder, such as:

    * Caffeine
    * Highly acidic foods, such as citrus fruits and juices
    * Spicy foods
    * Artificial sweeteners
    * Alcohol 

Avoid activities that irritate the urethra and bladder. This includes taking
bubble baths or using harsh soaps.

MEDICINES

Medicines used to treat urge incontinence relax bladder contractions and help
improve bladder function. There are several types of medicines that may be
used alone or together:

    * Anticholinergic medicines help relax the muscles of the bladder. They include oxybutynin (Oxytrol, Ditropan), tolterodine (Detrol), darifenacin (Enablex), trospium (Sanctura), and solifenacin (VESIcare).
    * Beta agonist drugs can also help relax the muscles of the bladder. The only medicine of this type currently is mirabegron (Myrbetriq).
    * Flavoxate (Urispas) is a drug that calms muscle spasms. However, studies have shown that it is not always effective at controlling symptoms of urge incontinence.
    * Tricyclic antidepressants (imipramine) help relax the smooth muscle of the bladder.
    * Botox injections are commonly used to treat overactive bladder. The medicine is injected into the bladder through a cystoscope. The procedure is most often done in the provider's office. 

These medicines may have side effects such as dizziness, constipation, or dry
mouth. Talk with your provider if you notice bothersome side effects.

If you have an infection, your provider will prescribe antibiotics. Be sure to
take the entire amount as directed.

SURGERY

Surgery can help your bladder store more urine. It can also help relieve the
pressure on your bladder. Surgery is used for people who do not respond to
medicines or who have side effects associated with medicines.

Sacral nerve stimulation involves implanting a small unit under your skin.
This unit sends small electrical pulses to the sacral nerve (one of the nerves
that comes out at the base of your spine). The electrical pulses can be
adjusted to help relieve your symptoms.

Augmentation cystoplasty is performed as a last resort for severe urge
incontinence. In this surgery, a part of the bowel is added to the bladder.
This increases the bladder size and allows it to store more urine.

Possible complications include:

    * Blood clots
    * Bowel blockage
    * Infection
    * Slightly increased risk of tumors
    * Not being able to empty your bladder -- you may need to learn how to put a catheter into the bladder to drain urine
    * Urinary tract infection 

Urinary incontinence is a long-term (chronic) problem. While treatments can
cure your condition, you should still to see your provider to make sure you
are doing well and check for possible problems.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well you do depends on your symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment. Many
people must try different treatments (some at the same time) to reduce
symptoms.

Getting better takes time, so try to be patient. A small number of people need
surgery to control their symptoms.

## Possible Complications

Physical complications are rare. The condition may get in the way of social
activities, careers, and relationships. It can also make you feel bad about
yourself.

Rarely, this condition can cause severe increases in bladder pressure, which
can lead to kidney damage.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * Your symptoms are causing problems for you.
    * You have pelvic discomfort or burning with urination.

## Prevention

Starting bladder retraining techniques early may help relieve your symptoms.

## Alternative Names

Overactive bladder; Detrusor instability; Detrusor hyperreflexia; Irritable
bladder; Spasmodic bladder; Unstable bladder; Incontinence - urge; Bladder
spasms; Urinary incontinence - urge

## Patient Instructions

    * Indwelling catheter care
    * Kegel exercises - self-care
    * Self catheterization - female
    * Sterile technique
    * Urinary catheters - what to ask your doctor
    * Urinary incontinence products - self-care
    * Urinary incontinence surgery - female - discharge 
    * Urinary incontinence - what to ask your doctor
    * Urine drainage bags
    * When you have urinary incontinence

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract

## References

Drake MJ. Overactive bladder. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA,
eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
76.

Kirby AC, Lentz GM. Lower urinary tract function and disorders: physiology of
micturition, voiding dysfunction, urinary incontinence, urinary tract
infections, and painful bladder syndrome. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz
GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 21.

Lightner DJ, Gomelsky A, Souter L, Vasavada SP. Diagnosis and treatment of
overactive bladder (non-neurogenic) in adults: AUA/SUFU Guideline Amendment
2019. _J Urol_. 2019;202(3):558-563. PMID: 31039103
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31039103.

Newman DK, Burgio KL. Conservative management of urinary incontinence:
behavioral and pelvic floor therapy and urethral and pelvic devices. In: Wein
AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 80.

Resnick NM. Urinary incontinence. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 23.

Stiles M, Walsh K. Care of the elderly patient. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 4.

## Review Date 7/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Overactive
Bladder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OveractiveBladder_thumb.jpg)Overactive
Bladder _Read more_

![Urinary
Incontinence](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UrinaryIncontinence_thumb.jpg)Urinary
Incontinence _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

