Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003976.htm    
                                Description: People who have problems controlling their urine or bowels (called incontinence) are at risk for skin problems. Skin areas most affected are near the buttocks, hips, genitals, and between the pelvis and    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Skin care and incontinence

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003976.htm

# Skin care and incontinence

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

People who have problems controlling their urine or bowels (called
incontinence) are at risk for skin problems. Skin areas most affected are near
the buttocks, hips, genitals, and between the pelvis and rectum (perineum).

Excess moisture in these areas makes skin problems such as redness, peeling,
irritation, and yeast infections likely.

Bedsores (pressure sores) may also develop if a person:

    * Has not been eating well (is malnourished)
    * Received radiation therapy to the area
    * Spends most or all of the day in a wheelchair, regular chair, or bed without changing position 

TAKING CARE OF THE SKIN

Using diapers and other products can make skin problems worse. Although they
may keep bedding and clothing cleaner, these products allow urine or stool to
be in constant contact with the skin. Over time, the skin breaks down. Special
care must be taken to keep the skin clean and dry. This can be done by:

    * Cleaning and drying the area right away after urinating or having a bowel movement.
    * Cleaning the skin with mild, dilute soap and water then rinsing well and gently patting dry. 

Use soap-free skin cleansers that do not cause dryness or irritation. Follow
the product's instructions. Some products do not require rinsing.

Moisturizing creams can help keep the skin moist. Avoid products that contain
alcohol, which may irritate the skin. If you are receiving radiation therapy,
ask your health care provider if it is OK to use any creams or lotions.

Consider using a skin sealant or moisture barrier. Creams or ointments that
contain zinc oxide, lanolin, or petrolatum form a protective barrier on the
skin. Some skin care products, often in the form of a spray or a towelette,
create a clear, protective film over the skin. A provider can recommend
barrier creams to help protect the skin.

Even if these products are used, the skin must still be cleaned each time
after passing urine or stool. Reapply the cream or ointment after cleaning and
drying the skin.

Incontinence problems can cause a yeast infection on the skin. This is an
itchy, red, pimple-like rash. The skin may feel raw. Products are available to
treat a yeast infection:

    * If the skin is moist most of the time, use a powder with antifungal medicine, such as nystatin or miconazole. DO NOT use baby powder.
    * A moisture barrier or skin sealant may be applied over the powder.
    * If severe skin irritation develops, see your provider.
    * If bacterial infection occurs, antibiotics applied to the skin or taken by mouth may help. 

The National Association for Continence (NAFC) has helpful information at
www.nafc.org.

IF YOU ARE BEDRIDDEN OR USING A WHEELCHAIR

Check the skin for pressure sores every day. Look for reddened areas that do
not turn white when pressed. Also look for blisters, sores, or open ulcers.
Tell the provider if there is any foul-smelling drainage.

A healthy, well-balanced diet that contains enough calories and protein helps
keep you and your skin healthy.

For people who must stay in bed:

    * Change your position often, at least every 2 hours
    * Change sheets and clothing right away after they are soiled
    * Use items that can help reduce pressure, such as pillows or foam padding 

For people in a wheelchair:

    * Make sure your chair fits properly
    * Shift your weight every 15 to 20 minutes
    * Use items that can help reduce pressure, such as pillows or foam padding 

A well-balanced diet that contains enough calories and protein helps keep the
person healthy. Also, smoking affects healing of the skin, so stopping smoking
is important.

## Alternative Names

Incontinence - skin care; Incontinence - pressure sore; Incontinence -
pressure ulcer

## Patient Instructions

    * Preventing pressure ulcers

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract

## References

Holroyd S. Incontinence-associated dermatitis: identification, prevention and
care. _Br J Nurs_. 2015;24(9):S37-S38, S40-S43. PMID: 25978474
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25978474.

Jacobson TM, Wright T. Improving quality by taking aim at incontinence-
associated dermatitis in hospitalized adults. _Medsurg Nurs_.
2015;24(3):151-157. PMID: 26285369 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26285369.

Kwon R, Rendon JL, Janis JE. Pressure sores. In: Song DH, Neligan PC, eds.
_Plastic Surgery: Volume 4: Lower Extremity, Trunk, and Burns_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 16.

Markland AD. Constipation and fecal incontinence. In: Ham RJ, Sloane PD,
Warshaw GA, Potter JF, Flaherty E, eds. _Ham's Primary Care Geriatrics: A
Case-Based Approach._ 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap
24.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: David L. Swanson, MD, Vice Chair of Medical Dermatology, Associate
Professor of Dermatology, Mayo Medical School, Scottsdale, AZ. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bowel Movement](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BowelMovement_thumb.jpg)Bowel
Movement _Read more_

![Urinary
Incontinence](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UrinaryIncontinence_thumb.jpg)Urinary
Incontinence _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

