Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007374.htm    
                                Description: Retropubic suspension is surgery to help control stress incontinence. This is urine leakage that happens when you laugh, cough, sneeze, lift things, or exercise. The surgery helps close your urethra and    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urinary incontinence - retropubic suspension

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007374.htm

# Urinary incontinence - retropubic suspension

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Retropubic suspension is surgery to help control stress incontinence. This is
urine leakage that happens when you laugh, cough, sneeze, lift things, or
exercise. The surgery helps close your urethra and bladder neck. The urethra
is the tube that carries urine from the bladder to the outside. The bladder
neck is the part of the bladder that connects to the urethra.

## Description

You receive either general anesthesia or spinal anesthesia before the surgery
starts.

    * With general anesthesia, you are asleep and feel no pain.
    * With spinal anesthesia, you are awake but numb from the waist down and feel no pain. 

A catheter (tube) is placed in your bladder to drain urine from your bladder.

There are 2 ways to do retropubic suspension: open surgery or laparoscopic
surgery. Either way, surgery may take up to 2 hours.

During open surgery:

    * A surgical cut (incision) is made on the lower part of your belly.
    * Through this cut the bladder is located. The doctor sews (sutures) the bladder neck, part of the wall of the vagina, and the urethra to the bones and ligaments in your pelvis.
    * This lifts the bladder and urethra so they can close better.

During laparoscopic surgery, the doctor makes a smaller cut in your belly. A
tube-like device that allows the doctor to see your organs (laparoscope) is
put into your belly through this cut. The doctor sutures the bladder neck,
part of the wall of the vagina, and the urethra to the bones and ligaments in
the pelvis.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

This procedure is done to treat stress incontinence.

Before discussing surgery, your doctor will have you try bladder retraining,
Kegel exercises, medicines, or other options. If you tried these and are still
having problems with urine leakage, surgery may be your best option.

## Risks

Risks for any surgery are:

    * Bleeding
    * Blood clots in the legs that may travel to the lungs
    * Breathing problems
    * Infection in the surgical cut, or opening of the cut
    * Other infection 

Risks for this surgery are:

    * Abnormal passage (fistula) between the vagina and the skin
    * Damage to the urethra, bladder, or vagina
    * Irritable bladder, causing the need to urinate more often
    * More difficulty emptying your bladder, or the need to use a catheter
    * Worsening of urine leakage 

## Before the Procedure

Tell your health care provider what medicines you are taking. These include
medicines, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription.

During the days before the surgery:

    * You may be asked to stop taking aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), warfarin (Coumadin), and any other medicines that make it hard for your blood to clot.
    * Ask which medicines you should still take on the day of your surgery.
    * If you smoke, try to stop. Your provider can help. 

On the day of your surgery:

    * You will likely be asked not to drink or eat anything for 6 to 12 hours before the surgery.
    * Take the medicines you have been told to take with a small sip of water.
    * You will be told when to arrive at the hospital. Be sure to arrive on time. 

## After the Procedure

You will likely have a catheter in your urethra or in your abdomen above your
pubic bone (suprapubic catheter). The catheter is used to drain urine from the
bladder. You may go home with the catheter still in place. Or, you may need to
perform intermittent catheterization. This is a procedure in which you use a
catheter only when you need to urinate. You will be taught how to do this
before you leave the hospital.

You may have gauze packing in the vagina after surgery to help stop bleeding.
It is usually removed a few hours after surgery.

You may leave the hospital on the same day as surgery. Or, you may stay for 2
or 3 days after this surgery.

Follow instructions about how to care for yourself after you go home. Keep all
follow-up appointments.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Urinary leakage decreases for most women who have this surgery. But you may
still have some leakage. This may be because other problems are causing your
urinary incontinence. Over time, some or all of the leakage may come back.

## Alternative Names

Open retropubic colposuspension; Marshall-Marchetti-Krantz (MMK) procedure;
Laparoscopic retropubic colposuspension; Needle suspension; Burch
colposuspension

## Patient Instructions

    * Kegel exercises - self-care
    * Self catheterization - female
    * Suprapubic catheter care
    * Urinary catheters - what to ask your doctor
    * Urinary incontinence products - self-care
    * Urinary incontinence surgery - female - discharge 
    * Urinary incontinence - what to ask your doctor
    * Urine drainage bags
    * When you have urinary incontinence

## References

Chapple CR. Retropubic suspension surgery for incontinence in women. In: Wein
AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 82.

Dmochowski RR, Blaivas JM, Gormley EA, et al. Update of AUA guideline on the
surgical management of female stress urinary incontinence. _J Urol_.
2010;183(5):1906-1914. PMID: 20303102 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20303102.

Kirby AC, Lentz GM. Lower urinary tract function and disorders: physiology of
micturition, voiding dysfunction, urinary incontinence, urinary tract
infections, and painful bladder syndrome. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz
GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 21.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Urinary
Incontinence](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UrinaryIncontinence_thumb.jpg)Urinary
Incontinence _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

