Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003973.htm    
                                Description: There are many products to help you manage urinary incontinence. You can decide which product to choose based on:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urinary incontinence products

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003973.htm

# Urinary incontinence products

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

There are many products to help you manage urinary incontinence. You can
decide which product to choose based on:

    * How much urine you lose
    * Comfort
    * Cost
    * Durability
    * How easy it is to use
    * How well it controls odor
    * How often you lose urine throughout the day and night 

INSERTS AND PADS

You may have tried using sanitary pads to manage urine leaks. However, these
products aren't made to absorb urine. So they don't work as well for that
purpose.

Pads made for urine leaks can soak up a lot more fluid than sanitary pads.
They also have a waterproof backing. These pads are meant to be worn inside
your underwear. Some companies make reusable, washable cloth liners or pads
that are held in place by waterproof pants.

ADULT DIAPERS AND UNDERWEAR

If you leak a lot of urine, you may need to use adult diapers.

    * You can buy either disposable or reusable adult diapers.
    * Disposable diapers should fit snugly.
    * They usually come in small, medium, large, and extra-large sizes.
    * Some diapers have elastic leg seams for a better fit and to prevent leaks. 

Reusable underpants may help save money.

    * Some types of underwear have a waterproof crotch. They hold a reusable absorbent liner in place.
    * Some look like normal underwear, but absorb as well as disposable diapers. Plus you don't need additional pads. They have a special design that quickly pulls fluid away from the skin. They come in different sizes to handle different amounts of leakage.
    * Other products include washable, adult cloth diapers or cloth diapers with a plastic cover.
    * Some people wear waterproof pants over their underwear for extra protection. 

PRODUCTS FOR MEN

    * Drip collector -- This is a small pocket of absorbent padding with a waterproof backside. The drip collector is worn over the penis. It is held in place by close-fitting underwear. This works well for men who constantly leak just a little.
    * Condom catheter -- You place this product over your penis like you would put on a condom. It has a tube on the end that connects with a collection bag tied to your leg. This device can handle small or large amounts of urine. It has little odor, doesn't irritate your skin, and is easy to use.
    * Cunningham clamp -- This device is placed over the penis. This clamp gently keeps the urethra (the tube that carries urine out of the body) closed. You release the clamp when you want to empty your bladder. It can be uncomfortable at first, but most men adjust to it. It is reusable, so it can be less expensive than other options. 

PRODUCTS FOR WOMEN

    * Pessaries -- These are reusable devices you insert in your vagina to support your bladder and put pressure on your urethra so you don't leak. Pessaries come in different shapes and sizes, such as a ring, cube, or dish. It may take a few tries for your provider to help you find the right fit.
    * Urethral insert -- This is a soft plastic balloon that is inserted into your urethra. It works by blocking urine from coming out. You must remove the insert to urinate. Some women use inserts for only part of the day, like when exercising. Others use them throughout the day. To prevent infection, you must use a new sterile insert each time.
    * Disposable vaginal insert -- This device is inserted into the vagina like a tampon. It puts pressure on the urethra to prevent leakage. The product is available at drug stores without a prescription.

BED AND CHAIR PROTECTION

    * Underpads are flat absorbent pads you can use to protect bed linens and chairs. These underpads, sometimes called Chux, are made of absorbent material with a waterproof backing. They may be disposable or reusable.
    * Some new products can pull moisture away from the surface of the pad. This protects your skin from breakdown. Medical supply companies and some larger department stores carry underpads.
    * You can also create your own underpads from vinyl tablecloths with flannel backing. Shower curtain liners covered with a flannel sheet also work well. Or, place a rubber pad between layers of bed linens. 

KEEP YOUR SKIN DRY

When you use these products, it's important to protect your skin. Skin can
break down when in contact with urine for a long time.

    * Remove soaked pads right away.
    * Remove all wet clothing and linen.
    * Thoroughly clean and dry your skin.
    * Consider using a skin barrier cream or lotion.

WHERE TO BUY URINARY INCONTINENCE PRODUCTS

You can find most products at your local drugstore, supermarket, or medical
supply store. Ask your health care provider for a list of incontinence care
products.

The National Association for Continence may be able to help you find products.
Call toll-free at 1-800-BLADDER or visit the website: www.nafc.org. You can
buy their Resource Guide that lists products and services along with mail
order companies.

## Alternative Names

Adult diapers; Disposable urinary collection devices

## Images

    * ![Male urinary system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10022t.jpg)Male urinary system

## References

Boone TB, Stewart JN. Additional therapies for storage and emptying failure.
In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_.
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 87.

Stiles M, Walsh K. Care of the elderly patient. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 4.

Wagg AS. Urinary incontinence. In: Fillit HM, Rockwood K, Young J, eds.
_Brocklehurst's Textbook of Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier, 2017:chap 106.

## Review Date 7/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Urinary
Incontinence](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UrinaryIncontinence_thumb.jpg)Urinary
Incontinence _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

