Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000141.htm    
                                Description: Kegel exercises can help make the muscles under the uterus, bladder, and bowel (large intestine) stronger. They can help both men and women who have problems with urine leakage or bowel control. You may    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Kegel exercises - self-care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000141.htm

# Kegel exercises - self-care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Kegel exercises can help make the muscles under the uterus, bladder, and bowel
(large intestine) stronger. They can help both men and women who have problems
with urine leakage or bowel control. You may have these problems:

    * As you get older
    * If you gain weight
    * After pregnancy and childbirth
    * After gynecologic surgery (women)
    * After prostate surgery (men)

People who have brain and nerve disorders may also have problems with urine
leakage or bowel control.

Kegel exercises can be done any time you are sitting or lying down. You can do
them when you are eating, sitting at your desk, driving, and when you are
resting or watching television.

## How to Find the Right Muscles

A Kegel exercise is like pretending you have to urinate and then holding it.
You relax and tighten the muscles that control urine flow. It is important to
find the right muscles to tighten.

Next time you have to urinate, start to go and then stop. Feel the muscles in
your vagina (for women), bladder, or anus get tight and move up. These are the
pelvic floor muscles. If you feel them tighten, you have done the exercise
right. Your thighs, buttock muscles, and abdomen should remain relaxed.

If you still are not sure you are tightening the right muscles:

    * Imagine that you are trying to keep yourself from passing gas.
    * Women: Insert a finger into your vagina. Tighten the muscles as if you are holding in your urine, then let go. You should feel the muscles tighten and move up and down.
    * Men: Insert a finger into your rectum. Tighten the muscles as if you are holding in your urine, then let go. You should feel the muscles tighten and move up and down. 

## How to do Kegel Exercises

Once you know what the movement feels like, do Kegel exercises 3 times a day:

    * Make sure your bladder is empty, then sit or lie down.
    * Tighten your pelvic floor muscles. Hold tight and count 3 to 5 seconds.
    * Relax the muscles and count 3 to 5 seconds.
    * Repeat 10 times, 3 times a day (morning, afternoon, and night). 

Breathe deeply and relax your body when you are doing these exercises. Make
sure you are not tightening your stomach, thigh, buttock, or chest muscles.

After 4 to 6 weeks, you should feel better and have fewer symptoms. Keep doing
the exercises, but do not increase how many you do. Overdoing it can lead to
straining when you urinate or move your bowels.

Some notes of caution:

    * Once you learn how to do them, do not practice Kegel exercises at the same time you are urinating more than twice a month. Doing the exercises while you are urinating can weaken your pelvic floor muscles over time or cause damage to bladder and kidneys.
    * In women, doing Kegel exercises incorrectly or with too much force may cause vaginal muscles to tighten too much. This can cause pain during sexual intercourse.
    * Incontinence will return if you stop doing these exercises. Once you start doing them, you may need to do them for the rest of your life.
    * It may take several months for your incontinence to lessen once you start doing these exercises. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your health care provider if you are not sure you are doing Kegel
exercises the right way. Your provider can check to see if you are doing them
correctly.You may be referred to a physical therapist who specializes in
pelvic floor exercises.

## Alternative Names

Pelvic muscle strengthening exercises; Pelvic floor exercises

## References

Goetz LL, Klausner AP, Cardenas DD. Bladder dysfunction. In: Cifu DX, ed.
_Braddom's Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation_. 5th ed. Elsevier; 2016:chap
20.

Newman DK, Burgio KL. Conservative management of urinary incontinence:
behavioral and pelvic floor therapy and urethral and pelvic devices. In: Wein
AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 80.

Patton S, Bassaly R. Urinary incontinence. In: Kellerman RD, Rakel DP, eds.
_Conn's Current Therapy 2019_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:1081-1083.

## Read More

    * Anterior vaginal wall repair
    * Inflatable artificial sphincter
    * Radical prostatectomy
    * Stress urinary incontinence
    * Transurethral resection of the prostate
    * Urge incontinence
    * Urinary incontinence
    * Urinary incontinence - injectable implant
    * Urinary incontinence - retropubic suspension
    * Urinary incontinence - tension-free vaginal tape
    * Urinary incontinence - urethral sling procedures

## Patient Instructions

    * Multiple sclerosis - discharge
    * Prostate resection - minimally invasive - discharge
    * Radical prostatectomy - discharge
    * Self catheterization - female
    * Self catheterization - male
    * Stroke - discharge 
    * Transurethral resection of the prostate - discharge 
    * Urinary incontinence products - self-care
    * Urinary incontinence surgery - female - discharge 
    * Urinary incontinence - what to ask your doctor
    * When you have urinary incontinence

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Bladder Diseases
    * Urinary Incontinence

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

