

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Influenza (Flu)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate

# Information for People Exposed to Birds Infected with Avian Influenza
Viruses of Public Health Concern

EspaÃ±ol

Minus

Related Pages

Available as a PDF Cdc-pdf[114 KB, 3 Pages]

**Public Health Monitoring Plan for USDA/APHIS Responders to Detections of
Avian Influenza Virus in Poultry** Cdc-pdfExternal [325 KB, 17 pages]

This document provides guidance to local, state, and federal public health
authorities on monitoring of persons potentially exposed to avian influenza
viruses during official United States Department of Agriculture Animal and
Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) response activities in the United
States.

You are being given this information and these instructions because you were
recently around poultry or wild birds found to be infected with avian
influenza viruses ("bird flu") of public health concern. Some avian influenza
viruses have caused rare, sporadic infections in people, resulting in human
illness ranging from mild to severe. These viruses are of public health
concern because of their ability to cause human illness and also because of
their potential to cause a pandemic.

Infected birds shed bird flu virus in their saliva, mucous and feces. Human
infections with bird flu viruses are rare, but they can happen when enough
virus gets into a person's eyes, nose or mouth, or is inhaled. This can happen
when virus is in the air (in droplets or possibly dust) and a person breathes
it in, or when a person touches something that has virus on it and then
touches their mouth, eyes or nose. Most often these infections have occurred
after unprotected contact with infected birds or surfaces contaminated with
avian influenza viruses. However, some infections have been identified where
direct contact was not known to have occurred.

Because human infections with these viruses are possible, all people with
exposure to birds infected with avian influenza viruses of public health
concern and people with exposure to surfaces contaminated with these viruses
should be monitored for illness for 10 days after their last exposure. State
and local health departments are helping to monitor people's health and you
should contact your health department if you get any of the symptoms listed on
this fact sheet during the 10 days after your last exposure. By following the
instructions below, you can help ensure that you receive prompt medical
evaluation, possible testing and appropriate treatment if you become ill with
signs and symptoms that could be due to bird flu.

### Please follow these instructions carefully:

**1\. Monitor your health for symptoms of avian influenza virus infection.  
**During and then immediately after your last exposure to infected birds or
contaminated surfaces, monitor yourself daily for any of these signs and
symptoms for 10 days:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fever (Temperature of 100°F [37.8°C] or greater) or feeling feverish/chills  
Diarrhea  
Cough Nausea  
Sore throat Vomiting  
Runny or stuffy nose Fatigue  
Sneezing Seizures  
Muscle or body aches Rash  
Headaches  
Eye tearing, redness, irritation  
Difficulty breathing/Shortness of breath

You should observe your health daily even if you carefully followed all
guidelines and instructions for properly putting on and taking off personal
protective equipment (PPE) and maintaining biosecurity precautions.

Re-start your 10-day monitoring period from Day 1 if you are around sick birds
again.

**2\. Call your state/local health department immediately if you develop any
illness signs or symptoms during the 10-day observation period.**  
Your health department will help you determine what to do next.

### Remember:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Most of the signs and symptoms of bird flu overlap with those of other respiratory illnesses (like seasonal flu).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * If you develop any of the signs or symptoms listed on this fact sheet, immediately call the health department of the state you are in at the time. Your health department wants to hear from you, even if it turns out to be a 'false alarm'.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Your health department may contact you by phone, email or text while you are observing your health.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * If you have symptoms, your health department may give you instructions and ask you to get tested for avian influenza virus infection.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * If you have symptoms, your health department may ask you to stay home and limit contact with others as much as possible until the results of your test are known.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * To test for avian influenza virus, a doctor or nurse will collect a sample from you by swabbing your nose and/or throat.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * If you become sick while you are observing your health, a doctor may prescribe you an antiviral medication that is used for treatment of influenza.  It is important to follow the directions for taking the medication. (CDC recommends that clinicians prescribe antiviral medications for treatment of ill persons who had exposure to avian influenza viruses of public health concern.)

** **

 Here's an example of a log you can keep as a reminder to check your health
each day for illness signs and symptoms. **Day** | **Date** | **Temperature**
| **Signs and Symptoms** _Write 'None' if you aren't experiencing any of the
signs and symptoms._  
---|---|---|---  
**1** |  |  |  
**2** |  |  |  
**3** |  |  |  
**4** |  |  |  
**5** |  |  |  
**6** |  |  |  
**7** |  |  |  
**8** |  |  |  
**9** |  |  |  
**10** |  |  |  
  
### Where to Find More Information:

Visit Information on Avian Influenza or Informacion sobre la influenza aviar.

Call 1-800-CDC-INFO (1-800-232-4636); TTY: 888-232-6348

Avian influenza virus infections in humans are of public health concern, not
only because of the illness they may cause, but because of their pandemic
potential. Some avian influenza viruses have been associated with greater
numbers of human infections and more serious illnesses in people and therefore
may pose a greater known public health risk. Avian influenza viruses of
particular public health concern include (1) those viruses which are known to
have caused severe disease in humans, such as highly-pathogenic avian
influenza (HPAI) A (H5N1) virus and low-pathogenic avian influenza (LPAI) A
(H7N9) virus. Also, (2) avian influenza viruses that are related to viruses
known to cause severe disease in humans are of concern because of their
perceived potential to cause severe disease in people. These include HPAI A
(H5) and A (H7) viruses identified in birds in the United States during 2015
and 2016. Finally, (3) other avian influenza viruses may be deemed to be of
public health concern based on specific circumstances.

Page last reviewed: December 18, 2018

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD)

home Avian Flu

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Bird Flu Basics expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Avian Influenza Type A Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Bird Flu in Birds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Bird Flu in People expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Spread of Bird Flu Viruses Between Animals and People
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Examples of Human Infections with Avian Influenza A Viruses with Possible Limited, Non-Sustained Human-to-Human Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Prevention and Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Information for Specific Groups expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Information for People Exposed to Birds Infected with Avian Influenza Viruses of Public Health Concern
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Recommendations for Worker Protection and Use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Self-Observation Instructions for Demobilizing Bird Flu Responders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Current Situation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Specific Avian Flu Viruses expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Avian Influenza Type A Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Asian Avian Influenza A (H5N1) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * H5N1 in Birds and Other Animals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * H5N1 in People
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Public Health Threat of Highly Pathogenic Asian Avian Influenza A (H5N1) Virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * H5N1 Genetic Changes Inventory expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Inventory Preamble
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Inventory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Questions & Answers: H5N1 Genetic Change Inventory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * HPAI A H5 Virus Background and Clinical Illness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Asian Lineage Avian Influenza A (H7N9) Virus expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * H7N9 Images
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publications & Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pandemic Response Planning Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * North American Lineage AI Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Past Outbreaks expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * H5 Viruses in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * U.S. H5 outbreaks in 2014-2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * U.S. H7N8 in 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * U.S. H7N2 in cats in 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Care & Laboratorian Guidance expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Case Definitions expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * U.S. H5 Virus Case Definitions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Asian H5N1 Case Definitions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Asian H7N9 Case Definitions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Testing, Reporting & Lab Information expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Specimen Collection and Testing for Patients with Novel Influenza A Viruses with Potential to Cause Severe Disease in Humans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Specimen Collection and Testing for Patients with Novel Influenza A Viruses Associated with Severe Disease in Humans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnostics for Detecting H7N9 Using rRT-PCR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC and USDA: Interim Risk Assessment and Biosafety Level Recommendations for Working with Influenza A (H7N9) Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Infection Control Within Healthcare Settings for Patients with Novel Influenza A Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment and Prophylaxis expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * For Clinicians: Evaluating and Managing Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Use of Antiviral Medications for Treatment of Human Infections with Novel Influenza A Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Antiviral Chemoprophylaxis of Persons Exposed to Birds with Avian Influenza A Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Follow-up of Close Contacts of Persons Infected with Novel Influenza A Viruses and Use of Antiviral Chemoprophylaxis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What CDC Does expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Monitoring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Risk Assessment & Research expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Researching the Virus 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Dual Use Research of Concern
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Preparedness and Response expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Making a Candidate Vaccine Virus 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Avian Influenza Related Links
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * News & Spotlights

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

![1918 Pandemic flu commemoration website.](/flu/images/pandemic-1918-flu.jpg)



Influenza Types

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Seasonal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Avian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Swine/Variant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Influenza in Animals

**Error processing SSI file**  

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM

