Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007376.htm    
                                Description: Vaginal sling procedures are types of surgeries that help control stress urinary incontinence. This is urine leakage that happens when you laugh, cough, sneeze, lift things, or exercise. The procedure    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urinary incontinence - urethral sling procedures

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007376.htm

# Urinary incontinence - urethral sling procedures

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Vaginal sling procedures are types of surgeries that help control stress
urinary incontinence. This is urine leakage that happens when you laugh,
cough, sneeze, lift things, or exercise. The procedure helps close your
urethra and bladder neck. The urethra is the tube that carries urine from the
bladder to the outside. The bladder neck is the part of the bladder that
connects to the urethra.

## Description

Vaginal sling procedures use different materials:

    * Tissue from your body
    * Man-made (synthetic) material known as mesh 

You have either general anesthesia or spinal anesthesia before the surgery
starts.

    * With general anesthesia, you are asleep and feel no pain.
    * With spinal anesthesia, you are awake, but from the waist down you are numb and feel no pain. 

A catheter (tube) is placed in your bladder to drain urine from your bladder.

The doctor makes one small surgical cut (incision) inside your vagina. Another
small cut is made just above the pubic hair line or in the groin. Most of the
procedure is done through the cut inside the vagina.

The doctor creates a sling from the tissue or synthetic material. The sling is
passed under your urethra and bladder neck and is attached to the strong
tissues in your lower belly, or left in place to let your body heal around and
incorporate it into your tissue.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Vaginal sling procedures are done to treat stress urinaryÂ incontinence.

Before discussing surgery, your doctor will have you try bladder retraining,
Kegel exercises, medicines, or other options. If you tried these and are still
having problems with urine leakage, surgery may be your best option.

## Risks

Risks of any surgery are:

    * Bleeding
    * Blood clots in the legs that may travel to the lungs
    * Breathing problems
    * Infection in the surgical cut or opening of the cut
    * Other infection 

Risks of this surgery are:

    * Injury to nearby organs
    * Breaking down of the synthetic material used for the sling
    * Erosion of the synthetic material through your normal tissue
    * Changes in the vagina (prolapsed vagina)
    * Damage to the urethra, bladder, or vagina
    * Abnormal passage (fistula) between the bladder or urethra and vagina
    * Irritable bladder, causing the need to urinate more often
    * More difficulty emptying your bladder, and the need to use a catheter
    * Worsening of urine leakage 

## Before the Procedure

Tell yourÂ doctor what medicines you are taking. These include medicines,
supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription.

During the days before the surgery:

    * You may be asked to stop taking aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), warfarin (Coumadin), and any other medicines that make it hard for your blood to clot.
    * Ask which medicines you should still take on the day of the surgery.
    * If you smoke, try to stop. Your health care provider can help.

On the day of the surgery:

    * You mayÂ be asked not to drink or eat anything for 6Â to 12 hours before the surgery.
    * Take the medicines you have been told to take with a small sip of water.
    * You will be told when to arrive at the hospital. Be sure to arrive on time.

## After the Procedure

You may have gauze packing in the vagina after surgery to help stop bleeding.
It is most often removed a few hours after surgery or the next day.

You may leave the hospital on the same day as surgery. Or you may stay for 1
or 2 days.

The stitches (sutures) in your vagina will dissolve after several weeks. After
1 to 3 months, you should be able to have sexual intercourse without any
problems.

Follow instructions about how to care for yourself after you go home. Keep all
follow-up appointments.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Urinary leakage gets better for most women. But you may still have some
leakage. This may be because other problems are causing urinary incontinence.
Over time, the leakage may come back.

## Alternative Names

Pubo-vaginal sling; Transobturator sling; Midurethral sling

## Patient Instructions

    * Kegel exercises - self-care
    * Self catheterization - female
    * Suprapubic catheter care
    * Urinary catheters - what to ask your doctor
    * Urinary incontinence products - self-care
    * Urinary incontinence surgery - female - discharge 
    * Urinary incontinence - what to ask your doctor
    * Urine drainage bags
    * When you have urinary incontinence

## References

Dmochowski RR, Osborn DJ, Reynolds WS. Slings: autologous, biologic,
synthetic, and midurethral. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA,
eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
84.

Paraiso MFR, Chen CCG. The use of biologic tissue and synthetic mesh in
urogynecology and reconstructive pelvic surgery. In: Walters MD, Karram MM,
eds. _Urogynecology and Reconstructive Pelvic Surgery_. 4th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 28.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Urinary
Incontinence](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UrinaryIncontinence_thumb.jpg)Urinary
Incontinence _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

