Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000143.htm    
                                Description: A urinary catheter tube drains urine from your bladder. You may need a catheter because you have urinary incontinence (leakage), urinary retention (not being able to urinate), prostate problems, or surgery    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Self catheterization - male

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000143.htm

# Self catheterization - male

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A urinary catheter tube drains urine from your bladder. You may need a
catheter because you have urinary incontinence (leakage), urinary retention
(not being able to urinate), prostate problems, or surgery that made it
necessary.

Clean intermittent catheterization can be done using clean techniques.

## What to Expect at Home

Urine will drain through your catheter into the toilet or a special container.
Your health care provider will show you how to use your catheter. After some
practice, it will get easier.

Sometimes family members or other people you know such as a friend who is a
nurse or medical assistant may be able to help you use your catheter.

Catheters and other supplies can be bought at medical supply stores. You will
get a prescription for the right catheter for you. There are many different
types and sizes. Other supplies may include towelettes and lubricant such as
K-Y Jelly or Surgilube. DO NOT use Vaseline (petroleum jelly). Your provider
can also submit you a prescription to a mail order company to have the
supplies and catheters delivered to your house.

Ask how often you should empty your bladder with your catheter. In most cases,
it is every 4 to 6 hours, or 4 to 6 times a day.

Always empty your bladder first thing in the morning and just before you go to
bed at night. You may need to empty your bladder more frequently if you have
had more fluids to drink.

Avoid letting your bladder get too full. This increases your risk of
infection, permanent kidney damage, or other complications.

## Using Your Catheter

Follow these steps to insert your catheter:

    * Wash your hands well with soap and water.
    * Collect your supplies, including your catheter (open and ready to be used), a towelette or other cleaning wipe, lubricant, and a container to collect the urine if you are not planning to sit on the toilet.
    * You may use clean disposable gloves if you prefer not to use your bare hands. The gloves do not need to be sterile unless your provider says so.
    * Move back the foreskin of your penis if you are uncircumcised.
    * Wash the tip of your penis with Betadine (an antiseptic cleaner), a towelette, soap and water, or baby wipes the way your provider showed you.
    * Apply the K-Y Jelly or another gel to the tip and top 2 inches (5 centimeters) of the catheter. (Some catheters come with gel already on them.) Another type is soaked in sterile water which makes them self-lubricated. These are called hydrophilic catheters.
    * With one hand, hold your penis straight out.
    * With your other hand, insert the catheter using firm, gentle pressure. DO NOT force it. Start over if it is not going in well. Try to relax and breathe deeply. 

Once the catheter is in, urine will start to flow.

    * After urine starts to flow, gently push in the catheter about 2 more inches (5 centimeters), or to the "Y" connector. (Younger boys will push in the catheter only about 1 inch or 2.5 centimeters more at this point.)
    * Let the urine drain into the toilet or special container.
    * When urine stops, slowly remove the catheter. Pinch the end closed to avoid getting wet.
    * Wash the end of your penis with a clean cloth or baby wipe. Make sure the foreskin is back in place if you are uncircumcised.
    * If you are using a container to collect urine, empty it into the toilet. Always close the toilet lid before flushing to prevent germs from spreading.
    * Wash your hands with soap and water. 

## Cleaning Your Catheter

Some catheters are meant to be used only once. Many others can be re-used if
cleaned appropriately. Most insurance companies will pay for you to use a
sterile catheter for each use.

If you are reusing your catheter, you must clean it every day. Always make
sure you are in a clean bathroom. DO NOT let the catheter touch any of the
bathroom surfaces; not the toilet, wall, or floor.

Follow these steps:

    * Wash your hands well.
    * Rinse out the catheter with a solution of 1 part white vinegar and 4 parts water. Or, you can soak it in hydrogen peroxide for 30 minutes. You can also use warm water with soap. The catheter does not have to be sterile, just clean.
    * Rinse it again with cold water.
    * Hang the catheter over a towel to dry.
    * When it is dry, store the catheter in a new plastic bag. 

Throw away the catheter when it becomes dry and brittle.

When away from your house, carry a separate plastic bag for storing used
catheters. If possible, rinse the catheters before placing them in the bag.
When you return home, follow the above steps to clean them thoroughly.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your health care provider if:

    * You are having trouble inserting or cleaning your catheter.
    * You are leaking urine between catheterizations.
    * You have a skin rash or sores.
    * You notice a smell.
    * You have penis pain.
    * You have signs of infection, such as a burning sensation when you urinate, a fever, or chill. 

## Alternative Names

Clean intermittent catheterization - male; CIC - male; Self-intermittent
catheterization

## Images

    * ![Catheterization](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9653t.jpg)Catheterization

## References

Davis JE, Silverman MA. Urologic procedures.In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB,
Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency
Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 55.

Tailly T, Denstedt JD. Fundamentals of urinary tract drainage. In: Wein AJ,
Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 6.

## Read More

    * Urinary incontinence

## Patient Instructions

    * Kegel exercises - self-care
    * Multiple sclerosis - discharge
    * Stroke - discharge 
    * Urinary catheters - what to ask your doctor
    * Urinary incontinence - what to ask your doctor
    * Urine drainage bags
    * When you have urinary incontinence

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * After Surgery
    * Bladder Diseases
    * Spinal Cord Injuries
    * Urethral Disorders
    * Urinary Incontinence
    * Urine and Urination

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

