Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000891.htm    
                                Description: Stress urinary incontinence occurs when your bladder leaks urine during physical activity or exertion. It may happen when you cough, sneeze, lift something heavy, change positions, or exercise.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Stress urinary incontinence

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000891.htm

# Stress urinary incontinence

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Stress urinary incontinence occurs when your bladder leaks urine during
physical activity or exertion. It may happen when you cough, sneeze, lift
something heavy, change positions, or exercise.

## Causes

Stress incontinence occurs when the muscles that control your ability to hold
urine get weak or do not work.

    * The bladder and urethra are supported by the pelvic floor muscles. Urine flows from your bladder through your urethra to the outside.
    * The sphincter is a muscle around the opening of the bladder. It squeezes to prevent urine from leaking through the urethra. 

When either set of muscles become weak, urine can pass when pressure is placed
on your bladder. You may notice it when you:

    * Cough
    * Sneeze
    * Laugh
    * Exercise
    * Lift heavy objects 

Weakened muscles may be caused by:

    * Childbirth
    * Injury to the urethra area
    * Some medicines
    * Surgery in the pelvic area or the prostate (in men)
    * Being overweight
    * Unknown causes 

Stress incontinence is common in women. Some things increase your risk, such
as:

    * Pregnancy and vaginal delivery.
    * Pelvic prolapse. This is when your bladder, urethra, or rectum slide into the vagina. Delivering a baby can cause nerve or tissue damage in the pelvic area. This can lead to pelvic prolapse months or years after delivery. 

## Symptoms

The main symptom of stress incontinence is leaking urine when you:

    * Are physically active
    * Cough or sneeze
    * Exercise
    * Stand from a sitting or lying down position

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a physical exam. This will include:

    * Genital exam in men
    * Pelvic exam in women
    * Rectal exam 

Tests may include:

    * Cystoscopy to look inside the bladder.
    * Pad weight test: You exercise while wearing a sanitary pad. Then the pad is weighed to find out how much urine you lost.
    * Voiding diary: You track your urinary habits, leakage and fluid intake.
    * Pelvic or abdominal ultrasound. 
    * Post-void residual (PVR) to measure the amount of urine left after you urinate.
    * Urinalysis to check for urinary tract infection.
    * Urinary stress test: You stand with a full bladder and then cough.
    * Urodynamic studies to measure pressure and urine flow.
    * X-rays with contrast dye to look at your kidneys and bladder. 

## Treatment

Treatment depends on how your symptoms affect your life.

There are 3 types of treatment for stress incontinence:

    * Bladder training
    * Pelvic floor muscle training
    * Surgery 

There are no medicines for treatment of stress incontinence. Some health care
providers may prescribe a medicine called duloxetine. This medicine is not
approved by FDA for the treatment of stress incontinence.

BEHAVIOR CHANGES

Making these changes may help:

    * Drink less fluid (if you drink more than normal amounts of fluid). Avoid drinking water before going to bed.
    * Avoid jumping or running.
    * Take fiber to avoid constipation, which can make urinary incontinence worse.
    * Quit smoking. This can reduce coughing and bladder irritation. Smoking also increases your risk for bladder cancer.
    * Avoid alcohol and caffeinated drinks such as coffee. They can make your bladder fill up quicker.
    * Lose excess weight.
    * Avoid foods and drinks that may irritate your bladder. These include spicy foods, carbonated drinks, and citrus.
    * If you have diabetes, keep your blood sugar under good control.Â 

BLADDER TRAINING

Bladder training may help you control your bladder. The person is asked to
urinate at regular intervals. Slowly, the time interval is increased. This
causes the bladder to stretch and hold more urine.

PELVIC FLOOR MUSCLE TRAINING

There are different ways to strengthen the muscles in your pelvic floor.

    * Biofeedback: This method can help you learn to identify and control your pelvic floor muscles.
    * Kegel exercises: These exercises can help keep the muscle around your urethra strong and working well. This may help keep you from leaking urine.
    * Vaginal cones: You place the cone into the vagina. Then you try to squeeze your pelvic floor muscles to hold the cone in place. You can wear the cone for up to 15 minutes at a time, two times a day. You may notice improvement in your symptoms in 4 to 6 weeks.
    * Pelvic floor physical therapy: Physical therapists specially trained in the area can fully evaluate the problem and help with exercises and therapies. 

SURGERIES

If other treatments do not work, your provider may suggest surgery. Surgery
may help if you have bothersome stress incontinence. Most providers suggest
surgery only after trying conservative treatments.

    * Anterior vaginal repair helps restore weak and sagging vaginal walls. This is used when the bladder bulges into the vagina (prolapse). Prolapse may be associated with stress urinary incontinence.
    * Artificial urinary sphincter: This is a device used to keep urine from leaking. It is used mainly in men. It is rarely used in women.
    * Bulking injections make the area around the urethra thicker. This helps control leakage. The procedure may need to be repeated after a few months or years.
    * Male sling is a mesh tape used to put pressure on the urethra. It is easier to do than placing an artificial urinary sphincter.
    * Retropubic suspensions lift the bladder and urethra.
    * Urethral slingsÂ support the urethra. 

If you have trouble completely emptying your bladder, you may need to use a
catheter. This is a very small tube you place in your urethra to drain urine
from your bladder.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Getting better takes time, so try to be patient. Symptoms most often get
better with nonsurgical treatments. However, they will not cure stress
incontinence. Surgery can cure some people of stress incontinence.

Treatment does not work as well if you have:

    * Conditions that prevent healing or make surgery more difficult
    * Other genital or urinary problems
    * Past surgery that did not work
    * Poorly controlled diabetes
    * Neurologic disease
    * Previous radiation to the pelvis

## Possible Complications

Physical complications are rare and most often mild. They can include:

    * Irritation of the vagina lips (vulva)
    * Skin sores or pressure ulcers in people who have incontinence and can't get out of the bed or chair
    * Unpleasant odors
    * Urinary tract infections

The condition may get in the way of social activities, careers, and
relationships. It also may lead to:

    * Embarrassment
    * Isolation
    * Depression or anxiety
    * Loss of productivity at work
    * Loss of interest in sexual activity
    * Sleep disturbances

Complications associated with surgery include:

    * Fistulas or abscesses
    * Bleeding
    * Infection
    * Pain during intercourse
    * Sexual dysfunction
    * Wearing away of materials placed during surgery, such as a sling or artificial sphincter

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of stress incontinence and they bother
you.

## Prevention

Doing Kegel exercises may help prevent symptoms. Women may want to do Kegels
during and after pregnancy to help prevent incontinence.

## Alternative Names

Incontinence - stress; Bladder incontinence stress; Pelvic prolapse - stress
incontinence; Stress incontinence; Leakage of urine - stress incontinence;
Urinary leakage - stress incontinence; Pelvic floor - stress incontinence

## Patient Instructions

    * Indwelling catheter care
    * Kegel exercises - self-care
    * Self catheterization - female
    * Sterile technique
    * Urinary catheters - what to ask your doctor
    * Urinary incontinence products - self-care
    * Urinary incontinence surgery - female - discharge 
    * Urinary incontinence - what to ask your doctor
    * Urine drainage bags
    * When you have urinary incontinence

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract
    * ![Stress incontinence](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17202t.jpg)Stress incontinence
    * ![Stress incontinence](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17205t.jpg)Stress incontinence
    * ![Bladder and urethral repair - series - Normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7004t.jpg)Bladder and urethral repair - series

## References

American Urological Association website. Surgical treatment of female stress
urinary incontinence (SUI): AUA/SUFU guideline.
www.auanet.org/guidelines/stress-urinary-incontinence-(sui)-new-(aua/sufu-
guideline-2017). Accessed April 6, 2018.

Hashim H, Abrams P. Evaluation and management of men with urinary
incontinence. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-
Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 72.

Kobashi KC. Evaluation and management of women with urinary incontinence and
pelvic prolapse. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds.
_Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 71.

Resnick NM. Incontinence. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 26.

## Review Date 1/23/2018

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Urinary
Incontinence](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UrinaryIncontinence_thumb.jpg)Urinary
Incontinence _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

