Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000188.htm    
                                Description: You have urinary incontinence. This means that you are not able to keep urine from leaking from your urethra, the tube that carries urine out of your body from your bladder. Urinary incontinence may occur    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urinary incontinence - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000188.htm

# Urinary incontinence - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You have urinary incontinence. This means that you are not able to keep urine
from leaking from your urethra, the tube that carries urine out of your body
from your bladder. Urinary incontinence may occur as you get older. It can
also develop after a surgery or childbirth.There are different types of
incontinence. Your health care provider will evaluate your type and recommend
appropriate treatment. You can do many things to help keep urinary
incontinence from affecting your daily life.

## Questions

What can I do to help protect my skin? How do I wash? Are there creams or
ointments I can use? What can I do about odor?

How can I protect the mattress on my bed? What should I use to clean a
mattress?

How much water or liquids should I drink every day?

Which foods or liquids can make my urinary incontinence worse?

Are there activities I should avoid that may cause problems with urine
control?

How can I train my bladder to help avoid having symptoms?

Are there exercises I can do to help with my urinary incontinence? What are
Kegel exercises?

What can I do when I want to exercise? Are there exercises that may make my
urinary incontinence worse?

Are there products available that can help?

Are there medicines or drugs that I can take to help? What are the side
effects?

What tests can be done to find the cause of incontinence?

Are there surgeries that can help fix my urinary incontinence?

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor about urinary incontinence; Stress urinary
incontinence; Urge urinary incontinence

## References

Newman DK, Burgio KL. Conservative management of urinary incontinence:
behavioral and pelvic floor therapy and urethral and pelvic devices. In: Wein
AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 80.

Resnick NM. Incontinence. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 26.

## Read More

    * Stress urinary incontinence
    * Urge incontinence
    * Urinary incontinence
    * Urinary incontinence - injectable implant
    * Urinary incontinence - retropubic suspension
    * Urinary incontinence - tension-free vaginal tape
    * Urinary incontinence - urethral sling procedures

## Patient Instructions

    * Kegel exercises - self-care
    * Self catheterization - female
    * Self catheterization - male
    * Urinary incontinence products - self-care
    * Urinary incontinence surgery - female - discharge 
    * When you have urinary incontinence

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Urinary Incontinence

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

