Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000145.htm    
                                Description: A suprapubic catheter (tube) drains urine from your bladder. It is inserted into your bladder through a small hole in your belly. You may need a catheter because you have urinary incontinence (leakage),    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Suprapubic catheter care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000145.htm

# Suprapubic catheter care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A suprapubic catheter (tube) drains urine from your bladder. It is inserted
into your bladder through a small hole in your belly. You may need a catheter
because you have urinary incontinence (leakage), urinary retention (not being
able to urinate), surgery that made a catheter necessary, or another health
problem.

## What to Expect at Home

Your catheter will make it easier for you to drain your bladder and avoid
infections. You will need to make sure it is working properly. You may need to
know how to change it. The catheter will need to be changed every 4 to 6
weeks.

You can learn how to change your catheter in a sterile (very clean) way. After
some practice, it will get easier. Your health care provider will change it
for you the first time.

Sometimes family members, a nurse, or others may be able to help you change
your catheter.

You will get a prescription to buy special catheters at a medical supply
store. Other supplies you will need are sterile gloves, a catheter pack,
syringes, sterile solution to clean with, gel such as K-Y Jelly or Surgilube
(DO NOT use Vaseline), and a drainage bag. You may also get medicine for your
bladder.

Drink 8 to 12 glasses of water every day for a few days after you change your
catheter. Avoid physical activity for a week or two. It is best to keep the
catheter taped to your belly.

Once your catheter is in place, you will need to empty your urine bag only a
few times a day.

## Caring for Your Skin Near your Catheter

Follow these guidelines for good health and skin care:

    * Check the catheter site a few times a day. Check for redness, pain, swelling, or pus.
    * Wash the area around your catheter every day with mild soap and water. Gently pat it dry. Showers are fine. Ask your providers about bathtubs, swimming pools, and hot tubs.
    * DO NOT use creams, powders, or sprays near the site.
    * Apply bandages around the site the way your provider showed you. 

## Make Sure Your Catheter Is Working

You will need to check your catheter and bag throughout the day.

    * Make sure your bag is always below your waist. This will keep urine from going back into your bladder.
    * Try not to disconnect the catheter more than you need to. Keeping it connected will make it work better.
    * Check for kinks, and move the tubing around if it is not draining.

## Changing Your Catheter

You will need to change the catheter about every 4 to 6 weeks. Always wash
your hands with soap and water before changing it.

Once you have your sterile supplies ready, lie down on your back. Put on two
pairs of sterile gloves, one over the other. Then:

    * Make sure your new catheter is lubricated on the end you will insert into your belly.
    * Clean around the site using a sterile solution.
    * Deflate the balloon with one of the syringes.
    * Take out the old catheter slowly.
    * Take off the top pair of gloves.
    * Insert the new catheter as far in as the other one was placed.
    * Wait for urine to flow. It may take a few minutes.
    * Inflate the balloon using 5 to 8 ml of sterile water.
    * Attach your drainage bag. 

If you are having trouble changing your catheter, call your provider right
away. Insert a catheter into your urethra through your urinary opening between
your labia (women) or in the penis (men) to pass urine. DO NOT remove the
suprapubic catheter because the hole can close up quickly. However, if you
have removed the catheter already and cannot get it back in, call your
provider or go to the local emergency room.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * You are having trouble changing your catheter or emptying your bag.
    * Your bag is filling up quickly, and you have an increase in urine.
    * You are leaking urine.
    * You notice blood in your urine a few days after you leave the hospital.
    * You are bleeding at the insertion site after you change your catheter, and it does not stop within 24 hours.
    * Your catheter seems blocked.
    * You notice grit or stones in your urine.
    * Your supplies do not seem to be working (balloon is not inflating or other problems).
    * You notice a smell or change in color in your urine, or your urine is cloudy.
    * You have signs of infection (a burning sensation when you urinate, fever, or chills). 

## Alternative Names

SPT

## References

Davis JE, Silverman MA. Urologic procedures. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB,
Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency
Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 55.

Solomon ER, Sultana CJ. Bladder drainage and urinary protective methods. In:
Walters MD, Karram MM, eds. _Urogynecology and Reconstructive Pelvic Surgery_.
4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 43.

Tailly T, Denstedt JD. Fundamentals of urinary tract drainage. In: Wein AJ,
Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 6.

## Read More

    * Anterior vaginal wall repair
    * Inflatable artificial sphincter
    * Radical prostatectomy
    * Urinary incontinence - injectable implant
    * Urinary incontinence - retropubic suspension
    * Urinary incontinence - tension-free vaginal tape
    * Urinary incontinence - urethral sling procedures

## Patient Instructions

    * Multiple sclerosis - discharge
    * Prostate resection - minimally invasive - discharge
    * Radical prostatectomy - discharge
    * Stroke - discharge 
    * Transurethral resection of the prostate - discharge 
    * Urinary catheters - what to ask your doctor
    * Urine drainage bags

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * After Surgery
    * Bladder Diseases
    * Spinal Cord Injuries
    * Urinary Incontinence
    * Urine and Urination

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

