Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000144.htm    
                                Description: You will use a catheter (tube) to drain urine from your bladder. You may need a catheter because you have urinary incontinence (leakage), urinary retention (not being able to urinate), surgery that made    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Self catheterization - female

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000144.htm

# Self catheterization - female

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You will use a catheter (tube) to drain urine from your bladder. You may need
a catheter because you have urinary incontinence (leakage), urinary retention
(not being able to urinate), surgery that made a catheter necessary, or
another health problem.

## What to Expect at Home

Urine will drain through your catheter into the toilet or a special container.
Your health care provider will show you how to use your catheter. After some
practice, it will get easier.

Sometimes family members or other people you may know, such as a friend who is
a nurse or medical assistant, may be able to help you use your catheter.

You will get a prescription for the right catheter for you. Generally your
catheter may be about 6 inches (15 centimeters) long, but there are different
types and sizes. You can buy catheters at medical supply stores. You will also
need small plastic bags and a gel such as K-Y jelly or Surgilube. DO NOT use
Vaseline (petroleum jelly). Your provider can also submit a prescription to a
mail order company to have your catheters and supplies delivered directly to
your house.

Ask how often you should empty your bladder with your catheter. In most cases,
you empty your bladder every 4 to 6 hours, or 4 to 6 times a day. Always empty
your bladder first thing in the morning and just before you go to bed at
night. You may need to empty your bladder more frequently if you have had more
fluids to drink.

You can empty your bladder while sitting on a toilet. Your provider can show
you how to do this correctly.

## Using Your Catheter

Follow these steps to insert your catheter:

    * Wash your hands well with soap and water.
    * Collect your supplies: catheter (open and ready to use), towelette or other cleaning wipe, lubricant, and a container to collect urine if you are not planning to sit on the toilet.
    * You may use clean disposable gloves, if you prefer not to use your bare hands. The gloves do not need to be sterile, unless your provider says so.
    * With one hand, gently pull the labia open, and find the urinary opening. You can use a mirror to help you at first. (It is sometimes helpful to sit backwards on the toilet with a mirror propped up to help see the area.)
    * With your other hand, wash your labia 3 times from front to back, up and down the middle, and on both sides. Use a fresh antiseptic towelette or baby wipe each time. Or, you may use cotton balls with mild soap and water. Rinse well and dry if you use soap and water.
    * Apply the K-Y Jelly or other gel to the tip and top 2 inches (5 centimeters) of the catheter. (Some catheters come with gel already on them.)
    * While you continue to hold your labia with your first hand, use your other hand to slide the catheter gently up into your urethra until urine starts to flow. DO NOT force the catheter. Start over if it is not going in well. Try to relax and breathe deeply. A small mirror may be helpful.
    * Let the urine flow into the toilet or container.
    * When urine stops flowing, slowly remove the catheter. Pinch the end closed to avoid getting wet.
    * Wipe around your urinary opening and labia again with a towelette, baby wipe, or cotton ball.
    * If you are using a container to collect urine, empty it into the toilet. Always close the toilet lid before flushing to prevent germs from spreading.
    * Wash your hands with soap and water. 

## Cleaning Your Catheter

Most insurance companies will pay for you to use a sterile catheter for each
use. Some kinds of catheters are meant to be used only once, but many
catheters can be re-used if they are cleaned correctly.

If you are reusing your catheter, you must clean your catheter every day.
Always make sure you are in a clean bathroom. DO NOT let the catheter touch
any of the bathroom surfaces (such as the toilet, wall, and floor).

Follow these steps:

    * Wash your hands well.
    * Rinse out the catheter with a solution of 1 part white vinegar and 4 parts water. Or, you can soak it in hydrogen peroxide for 30 minutes. You can also use warm water and soap. The catheter does not need to be sterile, just clean.
    * Rinse it again with cold water.
    * Hang the catheter over a towel to dry.
    * When it is dry, store the catheter in a new plastic bag. 

Throw away the catheter when it becomes dry and brittle.

When away from your house, carry a separate plastic bag for storing used
catheters. If possible, rinse the catheters before placing them in the bag.
When you return home, follow the above steps to clean them thoroughly.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your health care provider if:

    * You are having trouble inserting or cleaning your catheter.
    * You are leaking urine between catheterization.
    * You have a skin rash or sores.
    * You notice a smell.
    * You have pain in your vagina or bladder.
    * You have signs of infection (a burning sensation when you urinate, fever, fatigue, or chills). 

## Alternative Names

Clean intermittent catheterization - female; CIC - female; Self-intermittent
cathterization

## Images

    * ![Bladder catheterization, female](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1065t.jpg)Bladder catheterization - female

## References

Davis JE, Silverman MA. Urologic procedures. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB,
Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency
Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 55.

Tailly T, Denstedt JD. Fundamentals of urinary tract drainage. In: Wein AJ,
Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 6.

## Read More

    * Anterior vaginal wall repair
    * Inflatable artificial sphincter
    * Stress urinary incontinence
    * Urge incontinence
    * Urinary incontinence
    * Urinary incontinence - injectable implant
    * Urinary incontinence - retropubic suspension
    * Urinary incontinence - tension-free vaginal tape
    * Urinary incontinence - urethral sling procedures

## Patient Instructions

    * Kegel exercises - self-care
    * Multiple sclerosis - discharge
    * Stroke - discharge 
    * Urinary catheters - what to ask your doctor
    * Urinary incontinence surgery - female - discharge 
    * Urinary incontinence - what to ask your doctor
    * Urine drainage bags
    * When you have urinary incontinence

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * After Surgery
    * Bladder Diseases
    * Spinal Cord Injuries
    * Urethral Disorders
    * Urinary Incontinence
    * Urine and Urination

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

