Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007377.htm    
                                Description: Placement of tension-free vaginal tape is surgery to help control stress urinary incontinence. This is urine leakage that happens when you laugh, cough, sneeze, lift things, or exercise. The surgery helps    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urinary incontinence - tension-free vaginal tape

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007377.htm

# Urinary incontinence - tension-free vaginal tape

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Placement of tension-free vaginal tape is surgery to help control stress
urinary incontinence. This is urine leakage that happens when you laugh,
cough, sneeze, lift things, or exercise. The surgery helps close your urethra
and bladder neck. The urethra is the tube that carries urine from the bladder
to the outside. The bladder neck is the part of the bladder that connects to
the urethra.

## Description

You have either general anesthesia or spinal anesthesia before the surgery
starts.

    * With general anesthesia, you are asleep and feel no pain.
    * With spinal anesthesia, you are awake, but from the waist down, you are numb and feel no pain. 

A catheter (tube) is placed in your bladder to drain urine from your bladder.

A small surgical cut (incision) is made inside your vagina. Two small cuts are
made in your belly just above the pubic hair line or on the inside of each
inner thigh near the groin.

A special man-made (synthetic mesh) tape is passed through the cut inside the
vagina. The tape is then positioned under your urethra. One end of the tape is
passed through one of the belly incisions or through one of the inner thigh
incisions. The other end of the tape is passed through the other belly
incision or inner thigh incision.

The doctor then adjusts the tightness (tension) of the tape just enough to
support your urethra. This amount of support is why the surgery is called
tension-free. If you do not receive general anesthesia, you may be asked to
cough. This is to check the tension of the tape.

After the tension is adjusted, the ends of the tape are cut level with the
skin at the incisions. The incisions are closed. As you heal, scar tissue that
forms at the incisions will hold the tape ends in place so that your urethra
is supported.

The surgery takes about 2 hours.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Tension-free vaginal tape is placed to treat stress incontinence.

Before discussing surgery, your doctor will have you try bladder retraining,
Kegel exercises, medicines, or other options. If you tried these and are still
having problems with urine leakage, surgery may be your best option.

## Risks

Risks of any surgery are:

    * Bleeding
    * Breathing problems
    * Infection in the surgical cut or the cut opens up
    * Blood clots in the legs
    * Other infection 

Risks of this surgery are:

    * Injury to nearby organs - Changes in the vagina (prolapsed vagina, in which the vagina is not in the proper place).
    * Damage to the urethra, bladder, or vagina.
    * Erosion of the tape into surrounding normal tissues (urethra or vagina).
    * Fistula (abnormal passage) between the bladder or urethra and vagina.
    * Irritable bladder, causing the need to urinate more often.
    * It may become harder to empty your bladder, and you may need to use a catheter. This may require additional surgery.
    * Pubic bone pain.
    * Urine leakage may get worse.
    * You may have a reaction to the synthetic tape.
    * Pain with intercourse.

## Before the Procedure

Tell your health care provider what medicines you are taking. These include
medicines, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription.

During the days before the surgery:

    * You may be asked to stop taking aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), warfarin (Coumadin), and any other medicines that make it hard for your blood to clot.
    * Arrange for a ride home and make sure you will have enough help when you get there. 

On the day of the surgery:

    * You will likely be asked not to drink or eat anything for 6 to 12 hours before the procedure.
    * Take the medicines you were told to take with a small sip of water.
    * Your provider will tell you when to arrive at the hospital. Be sure to arrive on time. 

## After the Procedure

You will be taken to a recovery room. The nurses will ask you to cough and
take deep breaths to help clear your lungs. You may have a catheter in your
bladder. This will be removed when you are able to empty your bladder on your
own.

You may have gauze packing in the vagina after surgery to help stop bleeding.
It is most often removed a few hours after surgery or the next morning if you
stay overnight.

You may go home on the same day if there are no problems.

Follow instructions about how to care for yourself after you go home. Keep all
follow-up appointments.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Urinary leakage decreases for most women who have this procedure. But you may
still have some leakage. This may be because other problems are causing your
incontinence. Over time, some or all of the leakage may come back.

## Alternative Names

Retropubic sling; Obturator sling

## Patient Instructions

    * Kegel exercises - self-care
    * Self catheterization - female
    * Suprapubic catheter care
    * Urinary catheters - what to ask your doctor
    * Urinary incontinence products - self-care
    * Urinary incontinence surgery - female - discharge 
    * Urinary incontinence - what to ask your doctor
    * Urine drainage bags
    * When you have urinary incontinence

## References

Dmochowski RR, Osborn DJ, Reynold WS. Slings: autologous, biologic, synthetic,
and midurethral. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds.
_Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 84.

Walters MD, Karram MM. Synthetic midurethral slings for stress urinary
incontinence. In: Walters MD, Karram MM, eds. _Urogynecology and
Reconstructive Pelvic Surgery_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 20.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Urinary
Incontinence](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UrinaryIncontinence_thumb.jpg)Urinary
Incontinence _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

