Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003981.htm    
                                Description: A urinary catheter is a tube placed in the body to drain and collect urine from the bladder.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urinary catheters

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003981.htm

# Urinary catheters

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A urinary catheter is a tube placed in the body to drain and collect urine
from the bladder.

## Information

Urinary catheters are used to drain the bladder. Your health care provider may
recommend that you use a catheter if you have:

    * Urinary incontinence (leaking urine or being unable to control when you urinate)
    * Urinary retention (being unable to empty your bladder when you need to)
    * Surgery on the prostate or genitals
    * Other medical conditions such as multiple sclerosis, spinal cord injury, or dementia

Catheters come in many sizes, materials (latex, silicone, Teflon), and types
(straight or coude tip). A Foley catheter is a common type of indwelling
catheter. It has, soft, plastic or rubber tube that is inserted into the
bladder to drain the urine.

In most cases, your provider will use the smallest catheter that is
appropriate.

There are 3 main types of catheters:

    * Indwelling catheter
    * Condom catheter
    * Intermittent self-catheter 

INDWELLING URETHRAL CATHETERS

An indwelling urinary catheter is one that is left in the bladder. You may use
an indwelling catheter for a short time or a long time.

An indwelling catheter collects urine by attaching to a drainage bag. The bag
has a valve that can be opened to allow urine to flow out. Some of these bags
can be secured to your leg. This allows you to wear the bag under your
clothes. An indwelling catheter may be inserted into the bladder in 2 ways:

    * Most often, the catheter is inserted through the urethra. This is the tube that carries urine from the bladder to the outside of the body.
    * Sometimes, the provider will insert a catheter into your bladder through a small hole in your belly. This is done at a hospital or provider's office. 

An indwelling catheter has a small balloon inflated on the end of it. This
prevents the catheter from sliding out of your body. When the catheter needs
to be removed, the balloon is deflated.

CONDOM CATHETERS

Condom catheters can be used by men with incontinence. There is no tube placed
inside the penis. Instead, a condom-like device is placed over the penis. A
tube leads from this device to a drainage bag. The condom catheter must be
changed every day.

INTERMITTENT CATHETERS

You would use an intermittent catheter when you only need to use a catheter
sometimes or you do not want to wear a bag. You or your caregiver will insert
the catheter to drain the bladder and then remove it. This can be done only
once or several times a day. The frequency will depend on the reason you need
to use this method or how much urine needs to be drained from the bladder.

DRAINAGE BAGS

A catheter is most often attached to a drainage bag.

Keep the drainage bag lower than your bladder so that urine does not flow back
up into your bladder. Empty the drainage device when it is about one half full
and at bedtime. Always wash your hands with soap and water before emptying the
bag.

HOW TO CARE FOR A CATHETER

To care for an indwelling catheter, clean the area where the catheter exits
your body and the catheter itself with soap and water every day. Also clean
the area after every bowel movement to prevent infection.

If you have a suprapubic catheter, clean the opening in your belly and the
tube with soap and water every day. Then cover it with dry gauze.

Drink plenty of fluids to help prevent infections. Ask your provider how much
you should drink.

Wash your hands before and after handling the drainage device. DO NOT allow
the outlet valve to touch anything. If the outlet gets dirty, clean it with
soap and water.

Sometimes urine can leak around the catheter. This may be caused by:

    * Catheter that is blocked or that has a kink in it
    * Catheter that is too small
    * Bladder spasms
    * Constipation
    * The wrong balloon size
    * Urinary tract infections

POSSIBLE COMPLICATIONS

Complications of catheter use include:

    * Allergy or sensitivity to latex
    * Bladder stones
    * Blood infections (septicemia)
    * Blood in the urine (hematuria)
    * Kidney damage (usually only with long-term, indwelling catheter use)
    * Urethral injury
    * Urinary tract or kidney infections
    * Bladder cancer (only after long-term indwelling catheter) 

Call your provider if you have:

    * Bladder spasms that do not go away
    * Bleeding into or around the catheter
    * Fever or chills
    * Large amounts of urine leaking around the catheter
    * Skin sores around a suprapubic catheter
    * Stones or sediment in the urinary catheter or drainage bag
    * Swelling of the urethra around the catheter
    * Urine with a strong smell, or that is thick or cloudy
    * Very little or no urine draining from the catheter and you are drinking enough fluids 

If the catheter becomes clogged, painful, or infected, it will need to be
replaced right away.

## Alternative Names

Catheter - urine; Foley catheter; Indwelling catheter; Suprapubic catheters

## References

Davis JE, Silverman MA. Urologic procedures. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB,
Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency
Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 55.

Panicker JN, DasGupta R, Batla A. Neurourology. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 47.

Sabharwal S. Spinal cord injury (lumbosacral) In: Frontera WR, Silver JK,
Rizzo TD, eds. _Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 158.

Tailly T, Denstedt JD. Fundamentals of urinary tract drainage. In: Wein AJ,
Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 6.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![After Surgery](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AfterSurgery_thumb.jpg)After
Surgery _Read more_

![Bladder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BladderCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bladder
Diseases _Read more_

![Spinal
Cord](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpinalCordDiseases_thumb.jpg)Spinal Cord
Injuries _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

