Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000134.htm    
                                Description: Stress incontinence is a leakage of urine that happens when you are active or when there is pressure on your pelvic area. You had surgery to correct this problem. This article tells you how to take care    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urinary incontinence surgery - female - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000134.htm

# Urinary incontinence surgery - female - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Stress incontinence is a leakage of urine that happens when you are active or
when there is pressure on your pelvic area. You had surgery to correct this
problem. This article tells you how to take care of yourself after you leave
the hospital.

## When You're in the Hospital

Stress incontinence is a leakage of urine that happens when you are active or
when there is pressure on your pelvic area. Walking or doing other exercise,
lifting, coughing, sneezing, and laughing can all cause stress incontinence.
You had surgery to correct this problem. Your doctor operated on the ligaments
and other body tissues that hold your bladder or urethra in place.

## What to Expect at Home

You may be tired and need more rest for about 4 weeks. You may have pain or
discomfort in your vaginal area or leg for a few months. Light bleeding or
discharge from the vagina is normal.

You may go home with a catheter (tube) to drain urine from your bladder.

## Self-care

Take care of your surgical incision (cut).

    * You may shower 1 or 2 days after your surgery. Gently wash the incision with mild soap and rinse well. Gently pat dry. DO NOT take baths or submerge yourself in water until your incision has healed.
    * After 7 days, you can take off the tape which may have been used to close your surgical incision.
    * Keep a dry dressing over the incision. Change the dressing every day, or more often if there is heavy drainage.
    * Make sure you have enough dressing supplies at home. 

Nothing should go into the vagina for at least 6 weeks. If you are
menstruating, DO NOT use tampons for at least 6 weeks. Use pads instead. DO
NOT douche. DO NOT have sexual intercourse during this time.

Try to prevent constipation. Straining during bowel movements will put
pressure on your incision.

    * Eat foods that have a lot of fiber.
    * Use stool softeners. You can get these at any pharmacy.
    * Drink extra fluids to help keep your stools loose.
    * Ask your doctor before you use a laxative or enema. Some types may not be safe for you. 

Your health care provider may ask you to wear compression stockings for 4 to 6
weeks. These will improve your circulation and help prevent blood clots from
forming.

Know the signs and symptoms of a urinary tract infection. Ask your provider
for information about this. Call your provider if you think you might have a
urinary tract infection.

## Activity

You may slowly start your normal household activities. But be careful not to
get overtired.

Walk up and down stairs slowly. Walk each day. Start slowly with 5-minute
walks 3 or 4 times a day. Slowly increase the length of your walks.

DO NOT lift anything heavier than 10 pounds (4.5 kg) for at least 4 to 6
weeks. Lifting heavy objects puts too much stress on your incision.

DO NOT do strenuous activities, such as golfing, playing tennis, bowling,
running, biking, weight lifting, gardening or mowing, and vacuuming for 6 to 8
weeks. Ask your provider when it is OK to start.

You may be able to return to work within a few weeks if your work is not
strenuous. Ask your provider when it will be ok for you to go back.

You may start sexual activity after 6 weeks. Ask your provider when it will be
ok to start.

## Going Home with a Urinary Catheter

Your provider may send you home with a urinary catheter if you cannot urinate
on your own yet. The catheter is a tube that drains urine from your bladder
into a bag. You will be taught how to use and care for your catheter before
you go home.

You may also need to do self-catheterization.

    * You will be told how often to empty your bladder with the catheter. Every 3 to 4 hours will keep your bladder from getting too full.
    * Drink less water and other fluids after dinner to keep from having to empty your bladder as much during the night. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your health care provider if you have:

    * Severe pain
    * Fever over 100Â°F (37.7Â°C)
    * Chills
    * Heavy vaginal bleeding
    * Vaginal discharge with an odor
    * A lot of blood in your urine
    * Difficulty urinating
    * Swollen, very red, or tender incision
    * Throwing up that will not stop
    * Chest pain
    * Shortness of breath
    * Pain or burning feeling when urinating, feeling the urge to urinate but not being able to
    * More drainage than usual from your incision
    * Any foreign material (mesh) that may be coming from the incision 

## Alternative Names

Open retropubic colposuspension - discharge; Laparoscopic retropubic
colposuspension - discharge; Needle suspension - discharge; Burch
colposuspension - discharge; VOS - discharge; Urethral sling - discharge;
Pubo-vaginal sling - discharge; Pereyra, Stamey, Raz, and Gittes procedures -
discharge; Tension free vaginal tape - discharge; Transobturator sling -
discharge; Marshall-Marchetti retropubic bladder suspension - discharge,
Marshal-Marcheti-Krantz (MMK) - discharge

## References

Chapple CR. Retropubic suspension surgery for incontinence in women. In: Wein
AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 82.

Paraiso MFR, Chen CCG. The use of biologic tissue and synthetic mesh in
urogynecology and reconstructive pelvic surgery. In: Walters MD, Karram MM,
eds. _Urogynecology and Reconstructive Pelvic Surgery_. 4th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 28.

Wagg AS. Urinary incontinence. In: Fillit HM, Rockwood K, Young J, eds.
_Brocklehurst's Textbook of Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier, 2017:chap 106.

## Read More

    * Anterior vaginal wall repair
    * Inflatable artificial sphincter
    * Stress urinary incontinence
    * Urge incontinence
    * Urinary incontinence
    * Urinary incontinence - injectable implant
    * Urinary incontinence - retropubic suspension
    * Urinary incontinence - tension-free vaginal tape
    * Urinary incontinence - urethral sling procedures

## Patient Instructions

    * Getting out of bed after surgery
    * Indwelling catheter care
    * Kegel exercises - self-care
    * Self catheterization - female
    * Urinary catheters - what to ask your doctor
    * Urinary incontinence products - self-care
    * Urinary incontinence - what to ask your doctor
    * When you have urinary incontinence

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Urinary Incontinence

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

