Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003142.htm    
                                Description: Urinary (or bladder) incontinence occurs when you are not able to keep urine from leaking out of your urethra. The urethra is the tube that carries urine out of your body from your bladder. You may leak    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urinary incontinence

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003142.htm

# Urinary incontinence

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Urinary (or bladder) incontinence occurs when you are not able to keep urine
from leaking out of your urethra. The urethra is the tube that carries urine
out of your body from your bladder. You may leak urine from time to time. Or,
you may not be able to hold any urine.

The three main types of urinary incontinence are:

    * Stress incontinence \-- occurs during activities like coughing, sneezing, laughing, or exercise.
    * Urge incontinence \-- occurs as a result of a strong, sudden need to urinate immediately. Then the bladder squeezes and you lose urine. You don't have enough time after you feel the need to urinate to get to the bathroom before you do urinate.
    * Overflow incontinence -- occurs when the bladder does not empty and the volume of urine exceeds its capacity. This leads to dribbling. 

Mixed incontinence occurs when you have both stress and urge urinary
incontinence.

Bowel incontinence is when you are unable to control the passage of stool. It
is not covered in this article.

## Causes

Causes of urinary incontinence include:

    * Blockage in the urinary system
    * Brain or nerve problems
    * Dementia or other mental health problems that make it hard to feel and respond to the urge to urinate
    * Problems with the urinary system
    * Nerve and muscle problems
    * Weakness of the pelvic or urethral muscles
    * Enlarged prostate
    * Diabetes
    * Use of certain medicines 

Incontinence may be sudden and go away after a short period of time. Or, it
may continue long-term. Causes of sudden or temporary incontinence include:

    * Bedrest -- such as when you are recovering from surgery
    * Certain medicines (such as diuretics, antidepressants, tranquilizers, some cough and cold remedies, and antihistamines)
    * Mental confusion
    * Pregnancy
    * Prostate infection or inflammation
    * Stool impaction from severe constipation, which causes pressure on the bladder
    * Urinary tract infection or inflammation
    * Weight gain 

Causes that may be more long-term:

    * Alzheimer disease.
    * Bladder cancer.
    * Bladder spasms.
    * Large prostate in men.
    * Nervous system conditions, such as multiple sclerosis or stroke.
    * Nerve or muscle damage after radiation treatment to the pelvis.
    * Pelvic prolapse in women -- falling or sliding of the bladder, urethra, or rectum into the vagina. This may be caused by pregnancy and delivery.
    * Problems with the urinary tract.
    * Spinal cord injuries.
    * Weakness of the sphincter, the circle-shaped muscles that open and close the bladder. This can be caused by prostate surgery in men, or surgery to the vagina in women. 

## Home Care

If you have symptoms of incontinence, see your health care provider for tests
and a treatment plan. Which treatment you get depends on what caused your
incontinence and what type you have.

There are several treatment approaches for urinary incontinence:

 **Lifestyle changes.** These changes may help improve incontinence. You may
need to make these changes along with other treatments.

    * Keep your bowel movements regular to avoid constipation. Try increasing the fiber in your diet.
    * Quit smoking to reduce coughing and bladder irritation. Smoking also increases your risk for bladder cancer.
    * Avoid alcohol and caffeinated drinks such as coffee, which can stimulate your bladder.
    * Lose weight if you need to.
    * Avoid foods and drinks that may irritate your bladder. These include spicy foods, carbonated drinks, and citrus fruits and juices.
    * If you have diabetes, keep your blood sugar under good control. 

For urine leaks, wear absorbent pads or undergarments. There are many well-
designed products that no one else will notice.

 **Bladder training and pelvic floor exercises.** Bladder retraining helps you
gain better control over your bladder. Kegel exercises can help strengthen the
muscles of your pelvic floor. Your provider can show you how to do them. Many
women do not do these exercises correctly, even if they believe they are doing
them correctly. Often, people benefit from formal bladder strengthening and
retraining with a pelvic floor specialist.

 **Medicines.** Depending on the type of incontinence you have, your provider
may prescribe one or more medicines. These drugs help prevent muscle spasms,
relax the bladder, and improve bladder function. Your provider can help you
learn how to take these medicines and manage their side effects.

 **Surgery.** If other treatments do not work, or you have severe
incontinence, your provider may recommend surgery. The type of surgery you
have will depend on:

    * The type of incontinence you have (such as urge, stress, or overflow)
    * The severity of your symptoms
    * The cause (such as pelvic prolapse, enlarged prostate, enlarged uterus, or other causes) 

If you have overflow incontinence or you cannot fully empty your bladder, you
may need to use a catheter. You may use a catheter that stays in long-term, or
one that you are taught to put in and take out yourself.

 **Bladder nerve stimulation.** Urge incontinence and urinary frequency can
sometimes be treated by electrical nerve stimulation. Pulses of electricity
are used to reprogram bladder reflexes. In one technique, the provider inserts
a stimulator through the skin near a nerve in the leg. This is done weekly in
the provider's office. Another method uses battery-operated implanted device
similar to a pacemaker that is placed under the skin in the lower back.

 **Botox injections.** Urge incontinence can sometimes be treated with an
injection of onabotulinum A toxin (also known as Botox). The injection relaxes
the bladder muscle and increases the storage capacity of the bladder. The
injection is delivered through a thin tube with a camera on the end
(cystoscope). In most cases, the procedure can be done in the provider's
office.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Talk to your provider about incontinence. Providers who treat incontinence are
gynecologists and urologists that specialize in this problem. They can find
the cause and recommend treatments.

Call your local emergency number (such as 911) or go to an emergency room if
you suddenly lose control over urine and you have:

    * Difficulty talking, walking, or speaking
    * Sudden weakness, numbness, or tingling in an arm or leg
    * Loss of vision
    * Loss of consciousness or confusion
    * Loss of bowel control 

Call your provider if you have:

    * Cloudy or bloody urine
    * Dribbling
    * Frequent or urgent need to urinate
    * Pain or burning when you urinate
    * Trouble starting your urine flow
    * Fever 

## Alternative Names

Loss of bladder control; Uncontrollable urination; Urination - uncontrollable;
Incontinence - urinary; Overactive bladder

## Patient Instructions

    * Indwelling catheter care
    * Kegel exercises - self-care
    * Multiple sclerosis - discharge
    * Prostate resection - minimally invasive - discharge
    * Radical prostatectomy - discharge
    * Self catheterization - female
    * Self catheterization - male
    * Sterile technique
    * Transurethral resection of the prostate - discharge 
    * Urinary catheters - what to ask your doctor
    * Urinary incontinence products - self-care
    * Urinary incontinence surgery - female - discharge 
    * Urinary incontinence - what to ask your doctor
    * Urine drainage bags
    * When you have urinary incontinence

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract

## References

Kirby AC, Lentz GM. Lower urinary tract function and disorders: physiology of
micturition, voiding dysfunction, urinary incontinence, urinary tract
infections, and painful bladder syndrome. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz
GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 21.

Newman DK, Burgio KL. Conservative management of urinary incontinence:
behavioral and pelvic floor therapy and urethral and pelvic devices. In: Wein
AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 80.

Resnick NM. Incontinence. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 26.

Reynolds WS, Dmochowski R, Karram MM. Surgical management of detrusor
compliance abnormalities. In: Baggish MS, Karram MM, eds. _Atlas of Pelvic
Anatomy and Gynecologic Surgery_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 93.

Vasavada SP, Rackley RR. Electrical stimulation and neuromodulation in storage
and emptying failure. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds.
_Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 81.

## Review Date 10/10/2018

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Urinary
Incontinence](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UrinaryIncontinence_thumb.jpg)Urinary
Incontinence _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

