Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000146.htm    
                                Description: If you have problems with urinary incontinence (leakage), wearing special products will keep you dry and help you avoid embarrassing situations.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urinary incontinence products - self-care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000146.htm

# Urinary incontinence products - self-care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If you have problems with urinary incontinence (leakage), wearing special
products will keep you dry and help you avoid embarrassing situations.

## Choosing the Right Product

First, talk with your health care provider to make sure the cause of your
leakage cannot be treated.

If you have urine leakage, you can buy many types of urinary incontinence
products. These products help keep your skin dry and prevent skin rashes and
sores.

Ask your provider which product might be best for you. It depends on how much
leakage you have and when it happens. You might also be concerned about cost,
odor control, comfort, and how easy the product is to use.

You can always try another product if the one you are using is uncomfortable
or does not keep you dry enough.

Your provider might ask you to drink less fluid throughout the day to cut down
on leakage. Your provider may also recommend using the bathroom at regular,
set times to help avoid accidents. Keeping a journal about when you have
leakage problems can help your provider treat you.

## Products for Men and Women

You can wear disposable pads in your underwear. They have a waterproof backing
that keeps your clothes from getting wet. Common brands are:

    * Attends
    * Abena
    * Depends
    * Poise
    * Reassure
    * Serenity
    * Tena
    * Tranquility
    * Many different store brands

Always change your pad or underwear regularly, even if you are dry. Changing
often will keep your skin healthy. Set aside time to change 2 to 4 times a day
at the same times every day.

## Adult Diapers and Underwear

You can use adult diapers if you are leaking large amounts of urine. You can
buy the kind that you use once and throw away, or ones that you can wash and
reuse. They come in different sizes. Wear a size that fits you snugly. Some
have elastic around the legs to keep from leaking onto your clothes. Some come
with a plastic cover for more protection.

Special, washable underwear are also available. These look more like regular
underwear than adult diapers. Some have a waterproof crotch area and room for
a pad or liner. Some are made out of a special waterproof fabric that keeps
your skin dry. You do not need a pad with these.

Waterproof outer pants made of nylon, vinyl, or rubber are also available.
They can be worn over your underwear.

## Special Products for Men

Men can use a drip collector for small amounts of urine leakage. This is a
small pocket that fits over the penis. Wear close-fitting underwear to keep it
in place.

Men can also use a condom catheter device. It fits over the penis like a
condom. A tube carries the urine that collects in it to a bag attached to the
leg. This helps to prevent odor and skin problems.

## Special Products for Women

Women can try different products, depending on the cause for their urine
leakage. External devices include:

    * Foam pads that are very small and fit between your labia. You take the pad out when you need to urinate, and then put a new one in. Common brands are Miniguard, UroMed, Impress, and Softpatch.
    * A urethra cap is a silicone cap, or shield that fits in place over your urinary opening. It can be washed and used again. Common brands are CapSure and FemAssist. 

Internal devices to prevent urine leakage include:

    * A single-use plastic shaft that can be inserted into your urethra (hole where urine comes out) and has a balloon on one end and a tab on the other. It is only for single, short-term use and needs to be removed to urinate. Common brands are Reliance and FemSoft.
    * A pessary is a round latex or silicone disk that is inserted into your vagina to provide bladder support. It needs to be removed and washed on a regular basis. It must be fitted and prescribed by your primary care provider. 

## Products to Protect Your Furniture

You can buy special waterproof pads to put under your sheets and on your
chairs. Sometimes these are called Chux or blue pads. Some pads are washable
and can be reused. Others you use once and throw away.

You can also create your own pad from a vinyl tablecloth or shower curtain
lining.

## Where to Buy Products

Many of these products are available over-the-counter (without a prescription)
at your local drugstore or supermarket. You might have to check a medical
supply store or search online for some products.

Remember, washable items may help save money.

Your insurance may pay for your pads and other incontinence supplies if you
have prescription from your provider. Check with your insurance company to
find out.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your health care provider if:

    * You are not sure how to use your product.
    * You are not staying dry.
    * You develop a skin rash or sores.
    * You have signs of infection (a burning sensation when you urinate, fever, or chills). 

## Alternative Names

Adult diapers; Disposable urinary collection devices

## References

Boone TB, Stewart JN. Additional therapies for storage and emptying failure.
In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_.
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 87.

Newman DK, Burgio KL. Conservative management of urinary incontinence:
behavioral and pelvic floor therapy and urethral and pelvic devices. In: Wein
AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 80.

Solomon ER, Sultana CJ. Bladder drainage and urinary protective methods. In:
Walters MD, Karram MM, eds. _Urogynecology and Reconstructive Pelvic Surgery_.
4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 43.

## Read More

    * Anterior vaginal wall repair
    * Inflatable artificial sphincter
    * Radical prostatectomy
    * Stress urinary incontinence
    * Urge incontinence
    * Urinary incontinence
    * Urinary incontinence - injectable implant
    * Urinary incontinence - retropubic suspension
    * Urinary incontinence - tension-free vaginal tape
    * Urinary incontinence - urethral sling procedures

## Patient Instructions

    * Kegel exercises - self-care
    * Urinary incontinence surgery - female - discharge 
    * Urinary incontinence - what to ask your doctor
    * When you have urinary incontinence

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Bladder Diseases
    * Urinary Incontinence
    * Urine and Urination

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

