Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000142.htm    
                                Description: Urine drainage bags collect urine. Your bag will attach to a catheter (tube) that is inside your bladder. You may have a catheter and urine drainage bag because you have urinary incontinence (leakage),    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urine drainage bags

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000142.htm

# Urine drainage bags

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Urine drainage bags collect urine. Your bag will attach to a catheter (tube)
that is inside your bladder. You may have a catheter and urine drainage bag
because you have urinary incontinence (leakage), urinary retention (not being
able to urinate), surgery that made a catheter necessary, or another health
problem.

## How Your Leg Bag Works

Urine will pass through the catheter from your bladder into the leg bag.

    * Your leg bag will be attached to you all day. You can move around freely with it.
    * You can hide your leg bag under skirts, dresses, or pants. They come in all different sizes and styles.
    * At night, you will need to use a bedside bag with a larger capacity. 

Where to place your leg bag:

    * Attach your leg bag to your thigh with Velcro or elastic straps.
    * Make sure the bag is always lower than your bladder. This keeps urine from flowing back into your bladder. 

## Emptying Your Leg Bag

Always empty your bag in a clean bathroom. DO NOT let the bag or tube openings
touch any of the bathroom surfaces (toilet, wall, floor, and others). Empty
your bag into the toilet at least two or three times a day, or when it is a
third to half full.

Follow these steps for emptying your bag:

    * Wash your hands well.
    * Keep the bag below your hip or bladder as you empty it.
    * Hold the bag over the toilet, or the special container your doctor gave you.
    * Open the spout at the bottom of the bag, and empty it into the toilet or container.
    * DO NOT let the bag touch the rim of the toilet or container.
    * Clean the spout with rubbing alcohol and a cotton ball or gauze.
    * Close the spout tightly.
    * DO NOT place the bag on the floor. Attach it to your leg again.
    * Wash your hands again. 

## Changing Your Leg Bag

Change your bag once or twice a month. Change it sooner if it smells bad or
looks dirty. Follow these steps for changing your bag:

    * Wash your hands well.
    * Disconnect the valve at the end of the tube near the bag. Try not to pull too hard. DO NOT let the end of the tube or bag touch anything, including your hands.
    * Clean the end of the tube with rubbing alcohol and a cotton ball or gauze.
    * Clean the opening of the clean bag with rubbing alcohol and a cotton ball or gauze if it is not a new bag.
    * Attach the tube to the bag tightly.
    * Strap the bag to your leg.
    * Wash your hands again. 

## Cleaning Your Leg Bag

Clean your bedside bag each morning. Clean your leg bag each night before
changing to the bedside bag.

    * Wash your hands well.
    * Disconnect the tube from the bag. Attach the tube to a clean bag.
    * Clean the used bag by filling it with a solution of 2 parts white vinegar and 3 parts water. Or, you can use 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of chlorine bleach mixed with about a half cup (120 milliliters) of water.
    * Close the bag with the cleaning liquid in it. Shake the bag a little.
    * Let the bag soak in this solution for 20 minutes.
    * Hang the bag to dry with the bottom spout hanging down.

## When to Call the Doctor

A urinary tract infection is the most common problem for people with an
indwelling urinary catheter.

Call your health care provider if you have signs of an infection, such as:

    * Pain around your sides or lower back.
    * Urine smells bad, or it is cloudy or a different color.
    * Fever or chills.
    * A burning sensation or pain in your bladder or pelvis.
    * You do not feel like yourself. Feeling tired, achy, and have a hard time focusing. 

Call your provider if you:

    * Are not sure how to attach, clean, or empty your leg bag
    * Notice your bag is filling up quickly, or not at all
    * Have a skin rash or sores
    * Have any questions about your catheter bag 

## Alternative Names

Leg bag

## References

Griebling TL. Aging and geriatric urologoy. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin
AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 88.

Solomon ER, Sultana CJ. Bladder drainage and urinary protective methods. In:
Walters MD, Karram MM, eds. _Urogynecology and Reconstructive Pelvic Surgery_.
4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 43.

## Read More

    * Anterior vaginal wall repair
    * Inflatable artificial sphincter
    * Radical prostatectomy
    * Stress urinary incontinence
    * Urge incontinence
    * Urinary incontinence
    * Urinary incontinence - injectable implant
    * Urinary incontinence - retropubic suspension
    * Urinary incontinence - tension-free vaginal tape
    * Urinary incontinence - urethral sling procedures

## Patient Instructions

    * Indwelling catheter care
    * Multiple sclerosis - discharge
    * Prostate resection - minimally invasive - discharge
    * Radical prostatectomy - discharge
    * Self catheterization - female
    * Self catheterization - male
    * Stroke - discharge 
    * Suprapubic catheter care
    * Transurethral resection of the prostate - discharge 
    * Urinary catheters - what to ask your doctor

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * After Surgery
    * Bladder Diseases
    * Spinal Cord Injuries
    * Urinary Incontinence
    * Urine and Urination

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

