Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000140.htm    
                                Description: You have an indwelling catheter (tube) in your bladder. &quot;Indwelling&quot; means inside your body. This catheter drains urine from your bladder into a bag outside your body. Common reasons to have an indwelling    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Indwelling catheter care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000140.htm

# Indwelling catheter care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You have an indwelling catheter (tube) in your bladder. "Indwelling" means
inside your body. This catheter drains urine from your bladder into a bag
outside your body. Common reasons to have an indwelling catheter are urinary
incontinence (leakage), urinary retention (not being able to urinate), surgery
that made this catheter necessary, or another health problem.

## What to Expect at Home

You will need to make sure your indwelling catheter is working properly. You
will also need to know how to clean the tube and the area where it attaches to
your body so that you do not get an infection or skin irritation. Make
catheter and skin care part of your daily routine. Ask your health care
provider if you may take a shower with the catheter in place.

Avoid physical activity for a week or two after your catheter is placed in
your bladder.

## Cleaning Your Skin

You will need these supplies for cleaning your skin around your catheter and
for cleaning your catheter:

    * 2 clean washcloths
    * 2 clean hand towels
    * Mild soap
    * Warm water
    * A clean container or sink 

Follow these skin care guidelines once a day, every day, or more often if
needed:

    * Wash your hands well with soap and water. Be sure to clean between your fingers and under your nails.
    * Wet one of the washcloths with warm water and soap it up.
    * Gently wash all around the area where the catheter goes in with the soapy washcloth. Females should wipe from front to back. Males should wipe from the tip of the penis downward.
    * Rinse the washcloth with water until the soap is gone.
    * Add more soap to the washcloth. Use it to gently wash your upper legs and buttocks.
    * Rinse off the soap and pat dry with a clean towel.
    * DO NOT use creams, powders, or sprays near this area. 

## Cleaning the Catheter

Follow these steps two times a day to keep your catheter clean and free of
germs that can cause infection:

    * Wash your hands well with soap and water. Be sure to clean between your fingers and under your nails.
    * Change the warm water in your container if you are using a container and not a sink.
    * Wet the second washcloth with warm water and soap it up.
    * Gently hold the catheter and begin washing the end near your vagina or penis. Move slowly down the catheter (away from your body) to clean it. NEVER clean from the bottom of the catheter toward your body.
    * Gently dry the tubing with the second clean towel. 

You will attach the catheter to your inner thigh with a special fastening
device.

You may be given two bags. One bag attaches to your thigh for use during the
day. The second one is larger and has a longer connection tube. This bag holds
enough so you can use it overnight. You will be shown how to disconnect the
bags from the Foley catheter in order to switch them. You will also be taught
how to empty the bags through a separate valve without needing to disconnect
the bag from the Foley catheter.

## Making Sure Your Catheter is Working

You will need to check your catheter and bag throughout the day.

    * Always keep your bag below your waist.
    * Try not to disconnect the catheter more than you need to. Keeping it connected to the bag will make it work better.
    * Check for kinks, and move the tubing around if it is not draining.
    * Drink plenty of water during the day to keep urine flowing.

## When to Call the Doctor

A urinary tract infection is the most common problem for people with an
indwelling urinary catheter.

Call your health care provider if you have signs of an infection, such as:

    * Pain around your sides or lower back.
    * Urine smells bad, or it is cloudy or a different color.
    * Fever or chills.
    * A burning sensation or pain in your bladder or pelvis.
    * Discharge or drainage from around the catheter where it is inserted into your body.
    * You do not feel like yourself. Feeling tired, achy, and have a hard time focusing. 

Also call your provider if:

    * Your urine bag is filling up quickly, and you have an increase in urine.
    * Urine is leaking around the catheter.
    * You notice blood in your urine.
    * Your catheter seems blocked and not draining.
    * You notice grit or stones in your urine.
    * You have pain near the catheter.
    * You have any concerns about your catheter. 

## Alternative Names

Foley catheter; Suprapubic tube

## References

Davis JE, Silverman MA. Urologic procedures. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB,
Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency
Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 55.

Goetz LL, Klausner AP, Cardenas DD. Bladder dysfunction. In: Cifu DX, ed.
_Braddom's Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation_. 5th ed. Elsevier; 2016:chap
20.

Solomon ER, Sultana CJ. Bladder drainage and urinary protective methods. In:
Walters MD, Karram MM, eds. _Urogynecology and Reconstructive Pelvic Surgery_.
4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 43.

## Read More

    * Radical prostatectomy
    * Stress urinary incontinence
    * Transurethral resection of the prostate
    * Urge incontinence
    * Urinary incontinence

## Patient Instructions

    * Prostate resection - minimally invasive - discharge
    * Sterile technique
    * Transurethral resection of the prostate - discharge 
    * Urinary catheters - what to ask your doctor
    * Urinary incontinence surgery - female - discharge 
    * Urine drainage bags
    * When you have urinary incontinence

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * After Surgery
    * Bladder Diseases
    * Spinal Cord Injuries
    * Urethral Disorders
    * Urinary Incontinence
    * Urine and Urination

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

