Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003974.htm    
                                Description: External incontinence devices are products (or appliances). These are worn on the outside of the body. They protect the skin from constant leakage of stool or urine. Certain medical conditions can cause    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

External incontinence devices

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003974.htm

# External incontinence devices

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

External incontinence devices are products (or appliances). These are worn on
the outside of the body. They protect the skin from constant leakage of stool
or urine. Certain medical conditions can cause people to lose control of their
bowel or bladder.

## Information

There are several products available. The features of these different products
are listed below.

FECAL INCONTINENCE DEVICES

There are many types of products for managing long-term diarrhea or fecal
incontinence. These devices have a drainable pouch attached to an adhesive
wafer. This wafer has a hole cut through the center that fits over the anal
opening (rectum).

If put on properly, a fecal incontinence device may stay in place for 24
hours. It is important to remove the pouch if any stool has leaked. Liquid
stool can irritate the skin.

Always clean the skin and apply a new pouch if any leakage has occurred.

The device should be applied to clean, dry skin:

    * Your health care provider may prescribe a protective skin barrier. This barrier is usually a paste. You apply the barrier to the skin before attaching the device. You can put the paste in the skin folds of the buttocks to prevent liquid stool from leaking through this area.
    * Spread the buttocks apart, exposing the rectum, and apply the wafer and pouch. It may help to have someone help you. The device should cover the skin with no gaps or creases.
    * You may need to trim the hair around the rectum to help the wafer stick better to the skin. 

An enterostomal therapy nurse or skin care nurse can provide you with a list
of products that are available in your area.

URINARY INCONTINENCE DEVICES

Urine collection devices are mainly used by men with urinary incontinence.
Women are generally treated with medicines and disposable undergarments.

The systems for men most often consist of a pouch or condom-like device. This
device is securely placed around the penis. This is often called a condom
catheter. A drainage tube is attached at the tip of the device to remove
urine. This tube empties into a storage bag, which can be emptied directly
into the toilet.

Condom catheters are most effective when applied to a clean, dry penis. You
may need to trim the hair around the pubic area for better grip of the device.

You must change the device at least every other day to protect the skin and
prevent urinary tract infections. Make sure the condom device fits snugly, but
not too tightly. Skin damage may occur if it is too tight.

## Alternative Names

Condom catheter; Incontinence devices; Fecal collection devices; Urinary
incontinence - devices; Fecal incontinence - devices; Stool incontinence -
devices

## Images

    * ![Male urinary system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10022t.jpg)Male urinary system

## References

American Urological Association website. Catheter-associated urinary tract
infections: definitions and significance in the urologic patient.
www.auanet.org/guidelines/catheter-associated-urinary-tract-infections.
Accessed June 16, 2018.

Boone TB, Stewart JN. Additional therapies for storage and emptying failure.
In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_.
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 87.

Newman DK, Burgio KL. Conservative management of urinary incontinence:
behavioral and pelvic floor therapy and urethral and pelvic devices. In: Wein
AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 80.

Rao SSC. Fecal incontinence. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 18.

## Review Date 5/31/2018

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bowel Movement](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BowelMovement_thumb.jpg)Bowel
Movement _Read more_

![Urinary
Incontinence](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UrinaryIncontinence_thumb.jpg)Urinary
Incontinence _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

