Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007373.htm    
                                Description: Injectable implants are injections of material into the urethra to help control urine leakage (urinary incontinence) caused by a weak urinary sphincter. The sphincter is a muscle that allows your body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urinary incontinence - injectable implant

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007373.htm

# Urinary incontinence - injectable implant

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Injectable implants are injections of material into the urethra to help
control urine leakage (urinary incontinence) caused by a weak urinary
sphincter. The sphincter is a muscle that allows your body to hold urine in
the bladder. If your sphincter muscle stops working well, you will have urine
leakage.

## Description

The material that is injected is permanent. Coaptite and Macroplastique are
examples of two brands.

The doctor injects material through a needle into the wall of your urethra.
This is the tube that carries urine from your bladder. The material bulks up
the urethral tissue, causing it to tighten. This stops urine from leaking out
of your bladder.

You may receive one of the following types of anesthesia (pain relief) for
this procedure:

    * Local anesthesia (only the area being worked on will be numb)
    * Spinal anesthesia (you will be numb from the waist down)
    * General anesthesia (you will be asleep and not able to feel pain) 

After you are numb or asleep from anesthesia, the doctor puts a medical device
called a cystoscope into your urethra. The cystoscope allows your doctor to
see the area.

Then the doctor passes a needle through the cystoscope into your urethra.
Material is injected into the wall of the urethra or bladder neck through this
needle. The doctor can also inject material into the tissue next to the
sphincter.

The implant procedure is usually done in the hospital. Or, it is done in your
doctor's clinic. The procedure takes about 20 to 30 minutes.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Implants can help both men and women.

Men who have urine leakage after prostate surgery may choose to have implants.

Women who have urine leakage and want a simple procedure to control the
problem may choose to have an implant procedure. These women may not want to
have surgery that requires general anesthesia or a long recovery surgery.

## Risks

Risks for this procedure are:

    * Damage to the urethra or bladder
    * Urine leakage that gets worse
    * Pain where the injection was done
    * Allergic reaction to the material
    * Implant material that moves (migrates) to another area of the body 
    * Trouble urinating after the procedure
    * Urinary tract infection
    * Blood in the urine

## Before the Procedure

Tell your health care provider what medicines you are taking. This includes
medicines, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription.

You may be asked to stop taking aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) warfarin
(Coumadin), and any other medicines that make it hard for your blood to clot
(blood thinners).

On the day of your procedure:

    * You may be asked not to drink or eat anything for 6 to 12 hours before the procedure. This will depend on what type of anesthesia you will have.
    * Take the medicines your provider told you to take with a small sip of water.
    * You will be told when to arrive at the hospital or clinic. Be sure to arrive on time.

## After the Procedure

Most people can go home soon after the procedure. It may take up to a month
before the injection fully works.

It may become harder to empty your bladder. You may need to use a catheter for
a few days. This and any other urinaryÂ problems usually go away.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

You may need 2 or 3 more injections to get good results. If the material moves
away from the spot where it was injected, you may need more treatments in the
future.

Implants can help most men who have had transurethral resection of the
prostate (TURP). Implants help about one half of men who have had their
prostate gland removed to treat prostate cancer.

## Alternative Names

Intrinsic sphincter deficiency repair; ISD repair; Injectable bulking agents
for stress urinary incontinence

## Patient Instructions

    * Kegel exercises - self-care
    * Self catheterization - female
    * Suprapubic catheter care
    * Urinary catheters - what to ask your doctor
    * Urinary incontinence products - self-care
    * Urinary incontinence surgery - female - discharge 
    * Urinary incontinence - what to ask your doctor
    * Urine drainage bags
    * When you have urinary incontinence

## References

Dmochowski RR, Blaivas JM, Gormley EA, et al. Update of AUA guideline on the
surgical management of female stress urinary incontinence. _J Urol_.
2010;183(5):1906-1914. PMID: 20303102 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20303102.

Herschorn S. Injection therapy for urinary incontinence. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi
LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 86.

Kirby AC, Lentz GM. Lower urinary tract function and disorders: physiology of
micturition, voiding dysfunction, urinary incontinence, urinary tract
infections, and painful bladder syndrome. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz
GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 21.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Urinary
Incontinence](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UrinaryIncontinence_thumb.jpg)Urinary
Incontinence _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

