Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/004019.htm    
                                Description: Vital signs include body temperature, heart rate (pulse), breathing rate, and blood pressure. As you age, your vital signs may change, depending on how healthy you are. Some medical problems can cause    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Aging changes in vital signs

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/004019.htm

# Aging changes in vital signs

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Vital signs include body temperature, heart rate (pulse), breathing rate, and
blood pressure. As you age, your vital signs may change, depending on how
healthy you are. Some medical problems can cause changes in one or more vital
signs.

Checking your vital signs helps your health care provider monitor your health
and any medical problems you may have.

BODY TEMPERATURE

Normal body temperature does not change much with aging. But as you get older,
it becomes harder for your body to control its temperature. A decrease in the
amount of fat below the skin makes it harder to stay warm. You may need to
wear layers of clothing to feel warm.

Aging decreases your ability to sweat. You may have difficulty telling when
you are becoming overheated. This puts you at high risk of overheating (heat
stroke). You can also be at risk for dangerous drops in body temperature.

Fever is an important sign of illness in older people. It is often the only
symptom for several days of an illness. See your provider if you have a fever
that is not explained by a known illness.

A fever is also a sign of infection. When an older person has an infection,
their body may not be able to produce a higher temperature. For this reason,
it is important to check other vital signs, as well as any symptoms and signs
of infection.

HEART RATE AND BREATHING RATE

As you grow older, your pulse rate is about the same as before. But when you
exercise, it may take longer for your pulse to increase and longer for it to
slow down afterward. Your highest heart rate with exercise is also lower than
it was when you were younger.

Breathing rate usually does not change with age. But lung function decreases
slightly. Healthy older people can usually breathe without effort.

BLOOD PRESSURE

Older people may become dizzy when standing up too quickly. This is due to a
sudden drop in blood pressure. This kind of drop in blood pressure when
standing is called orthostatic hypotension.

Risk of having high blood pressure (hypertension) increases as you get older.
Other heart-related problems common in older adults include:

    * Very slow pulse or very fast pulse
    * Heart rhythm problems such as atrial fibrillation

EFFECTS OF MEDICINES ON VITAL SIGNS

Medicines that are used to treat health problems in older people can affect
the vital signs. For example, the medicine digoxin used for heart failure and
blood pressure medicines called beta-blockers may cause the pulse to slow.

Diuretics (water pills) can cause low blood pressure, most often when changing
body position too quickly.

OTHER CHANGES

As you grow older, you will have other changes, including:

    * In organs, tissues, and cells
    * In the heart and blood vessels
    * In the lungs

## Images

    * ![Aerobic exercise](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19383t.jpg)Aerobic exercise
    * ![Taking your carotid pulse](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19386t.jpg)Taking your carotid pulse
    * ![Radial pulse](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19395t.jpg)Radial pulse
    * ![Warming up and cooling down](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19397t.jpg)Warming up and cooling down
    * ![Effects of age on blood pressure](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8693t.jpg)Effects of age on blood pressure

## References

Chen JC. Approach to the geriatric patient. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 183.

Schiger DL. Approach to the patient with abnormal vital signs. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 8.

Walston JD. Common clinical sequelae of aging. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 25.

## Review Date 7/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Seniors' Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SeniorHealth_thumb.jpg)Older
Adult Health _Read more_

![Vital Signs](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VitalSigns_thumb.jpg)Vital Signs
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

