Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/004000.htm    
                                Description: The endocrine system is made up of organs and tissues that produce hormones. Hormones are natural chemicals produced in one location, released into the bloodstream, then used by other target organs and    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Aging changes in hormone production

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/004000.htm

# Aging changes in hormone production

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The endocrine system is made up of organs and tissues that produce hormones.
Hormones are natural chemicals produced in one location, released into the
bloodstream, then used by other target organs and systems.

Hormones control the target organs. Some organ systems have their own internal
control systems along with, or instead of, hormones.

As we age, changes naturally occur in the way body systems are controlled.
Some target tissues become less sensitive to their controlling hormone. The
amount of hormones produced may also change.

Blood levels of some hormones increase, some decrease, and some are unchanged.
Hormones are also broken down (metabolized) more slowly.

Many of the organs that produce hormones are controlled by other hormones.
Aging also changes this process. For example, an endocrine tissue may produce
less of its hormone than it did at a younger age, or it may produce the same
amount at a slower rate.

AGING CHANGES

The hypothalamus is located in the brain. It produces hormones that control
the other structures in the endocrine system. The amount of these regulating
hormones stays about the same, but the response by the endocrine organs can
change as we age.

The pituitary gland is also located in the brain. This gland reaches its
maximum size in middle age and then gradually becomes smaller. It has two
parts:

    * The back (posterior) part stores hormones produced in the hypothalamus.
    * The front (anterior) part produces hormones that affect growth, the thyroid gland (TSH), adrenal cortex, ovaries, testes, and breasts. 

The thyroid gland is located in the neck. It produces hormones that help
control metabolism. With aging, the thyroid may become lumpy (nodular).
Metabolism slows over time, beginning at around age 20. Because thyroid
hormones are produced and broken down (metabolized) at the same rate, thyroid
function tests are most often still normal. In some people, thyroid hormone
levels may rise, leading to an increased risk of death from cardiovascular
disease.

The parathyroid glands are four tiny glands located around the thyroid.
Parathyroid hormone affects calcium and phosphate levels, which affect bone
strength. Parathyroid hormone levels rise with age, which may contribute to
osteoporosis.

Insulin is produced by the pancreas. It helps sugar (glucose) go from the
blood to the inside of cells, where it can be used for energy.

The average fasting glucose level rises 6 to 14 milligrams per deciliter
(mg/dL) every 10 years after age 50 as the cells become less sensitive to the
effects of insulin.

The adrenal glands are located just above the kidneys. The adrenal cortex, the
surface layer, produces the hormones aldosterone, cortisol, and
dehydroepiandrosterone.

    * Aldosterone regulates fluid and electrolyte balance.
    * Cortisol is the "stress response" hormone. It affects the breakdown of glucose, protein, and fat, and it has anti-inflammatory and anti-allergy effects. 

Aldosterone release decreases with age. This decrease can contribute to
lightheadedness and a drop in blood pressure with sudden position changes
(orthostatic hypotension). Cortisol release also decreases with aging, but the
blood level of this hormone stays about the same. Dehydroepiandrosterone
levels also drop. The effects of this drop on the body are not clear.

The ovaries and testes have two functions. They produce the reproductive cells
(ova and sperm). They also produce the sex hormones that control secondary sex
characteristics, such as breasts and facial hair.

    * With aging, men sometimes have a lower level of testosterone.
    * Women have lower levels of estradiol and other estrogen hormones after menopause. 

EFFECT OF CHANGES

Overall, some hormones decrease, some do not change, and some increase with
age. Hormones that usually decrease include:

    * Aldosterone
    * Calcitonin
    * Growth hormone
    * Renin

In women, estrogen and prolactin levels often decrease significantly.

Hormones that most often remain unchanged or only slightly decrease include:

    * Cortisol
    * Epinephrine
    * Insulin
    * Thyroid hormones T3 and T4

Testosterone levelsÂ usually decrease gradually as men age.

Hormones that may increase include:

    * Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH)
    * Luteinizing hormone (LH)
    * Norepinephrine
    * Parathyroid hormone

RELATED TOPICS

    * Aging changes in immunity
    * Aging changes in organs, tissues, and cells
    * Aging changes in the male reproductive system
    * Menopause

## Images

    * ![Menopause](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17252t.jpg)Menopause
    * ![Female reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9433t.jpg)Female reproductive anatomy

## References

Bolignano D, Pisano A. Gender at the interface of renal aging: physiological
and pathological perspectives. In: Lagato MJ, ed. _Principles of Gender-
Specific Medicine_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2017:chap 43.

Brinton RD. Neuroendocrinology of aging. In: Fillit HM, Rockwood K, Young J,
eds. _Brocklehurst's Textbook of Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier, 2017:chap 13.

Skaznik-Wikiel ME, Traub ML, Santoro N. Menopause. In: Jameson JL, De Groot
LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 135.

Walston JD. Common clinical sequelae of aging. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 25.

## Review Date 7/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hormones](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hormones2_thumb.jpg)Hormones _Read
more_

![Seniors' Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SeniorHealth_thumb.jpg)Older
Adult Health _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

