Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/004004.htm    
                                Description: The appearance of the face and neck typically changes with age. Loss of muscle tone and thinning skin gives the face a flabby or drooping appearance. In some people, sagging jowls may create the look of    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Aging changes in the face

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/004004.htm

# Aging changes in the face

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The appearance of the face and neck typically changes with age. Loss of muscle
tone and thinning skin gives the face a flabby or drooping appearance. In some
people, sagging jowls may create the look of a double chin.

Your skin also dries out and loses the underlying layer of fat so that your
face no longer has a plump, smooth surface. To some extent, wrinkles cannot be
avoided. However, sun exposure and cigarette smoking are likely to make them
develop more quickly. The number and size of blotches and dark spots on the
face increase as well. These pigment changes are largely due to sun exposure.

Missing teeth and receding gums change the appearance of the mouth, so your
lips may look shrunken. Loss of bone mass in the jaw reduces the size of the
lower face and makes your forehead, nose, and mouth more pronounced. Your nose
may also lengthen slightly.

The ears may lengthen in some people (probably caused by cartilage growth).
Men may develop hair in their ears that becomes longer, coarser, and more
noticeable as they age. Ear wax becomes drier because there are fewer wax
glands in the ears and they produce less oil. The hardened ear wax can block
the ear canal and affect your ability to hear.

Eyebrows and eyelashes turn gray. As in other parts of the face, the skin
around the eyes gets wrinkles, creating crow's feet at the side of the eyes.

Fat from the eyelids settles into the eye sockets. This can make your eyes
look sunken. The lower eyelids can slacken and bags can develop under your
eyes. Weakening of the muscle that supports the upper eyelid can make the
eyelids droop. This may limit vision.

The outer surface of the eye (cornea) may develop a grayish-white ring. The
colored portion of the eye (iris) loses pigment, making most very elderly
people appear to have gray or light blue eyes.

## Images

    * ![Changes in face with age](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8665t.jpg)Changes in face with age

## References

Brodie SE, Francis JH. Aging and disorders of the eye. In: Fillit HM, Rockwood
K, Young J, eds. _Brocklehurst's Textbook of Geriatric Medicine and
Gerontology_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 95.

Donofrio LM. Evaluation and management of the aging face. In: Robinson JK,
Hanke CW, Siegel DM, Fratila A, Bhatia AC, Rohrer TE, eds. _Surgery of the
Skin_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2015:chap 23.

Walston JD. Common clinical sequelae of aging. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 25.

## Review Date 7/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Seniors' Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SeniorHealth_thumb.jpg)Older
Adult Health _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

