Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/004015.htm    
                                Description: Changes in posture and gait (walking pattern) are common with aging. Changes in the skin and hair are also common.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Aging changes in the bones - muscles - joints

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/004015.htm

# Aging changes in the bones - muscles - joints

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Changes in posture and gait (walking pattern) are common with aging. Changes
in the skin and hair are also common.

The skeleton provides support and structure to the body. Joints are the areas
where bones come together. They allow the skeleton to be flexible for
movement. In a joint, bones do not directly contact each other. Instead, they
are cushioned by cartilage in the joint, synovial membranes around the joint,
and fluid.

Muscles provide the force and strength to move the body. Coordination is
directed by the brain, but is affected by changes in the muscles and joints.
Changes in the muscles, joints, and bones affect the posture and walk, and
lead to weakness and slowed movement.

AGING CHANGES

People lose bone mass or density as they age, especially women after
menopause. The bones lose calcium and other minerals.

The spine is made up of bones called vertebrae. Between each bone is a gel-
like cushion (called a disk). The middle of the body (trunk) becomes shorter
as the disks gradually lose fluid and become thinner.

Vertebrae also lose some of their mineral content, making each bone thinner.
The spinal column becomes curved and compressed (packed together). Bone spurs
caused by aging and overall use of the spine may also form on the vertebrae.

The foot arches become less pronounced, contributing to a slight loss of
height.

The long bones of the arms and legs are more brittle because of mineral loss,
but they do not change length. This makes the arms and legs look longer when
compared with the shortened trunk.

The joints become stiffer and less flexible. Fluid in the joints may decrease.
The cartilage may begin to rub together and wear away. Minerals may deposit in
and around some joints (calcification). This is common in the shoulder.

Hip and knee joints may begin to lose cartilage (degenerative changes). The
finger joints lose cartilage and the bones thicken slightly. Finger joint
changes are more common in women. These changes may be inherited.

Lean body mass decreases. This decrease is partly caused by a loss of muscle
tissue (atrophy). The speed and amount of muscle changes seem to be caused by
genes. Muscle changes often begin in the 20s in men and in the 40s in women.

Lipofuscin (an age-related pigment) and fat are deposited in muscle tissue.
The muscle fibers shrink. Muscle tissue is replaced more slowly. Lost muscle
tissue may be replaced with a tough fibrous tissue. This is most noticeable in
the hands, which may look thin and bony.

Muscles are less toned and less able to contract because of changes in the
muscle tissue and normal aging changes in the nervous system. Muscles may
become rigid with age and may lose tone, even with regular exercise.

EFFECT OF CHANGES

Bones become more brittle and may break more easily. Overall height decreases,
mainly because the trunk and spine shorten.

Breakdown of the joints may lead to inflammation, pain, stiffness, and
deformity. Joint changes affect almost all older people. These changes range
from minor stiffness to severe arthritis.

The posture may become more stooped (bent). The knees and hips may become more
flexed. The neck may tilt, and the shoulders may narrow while the pelvis
becomes wider.

Movement slows and may become limited. The walking pattern (gait) becomes
slower and shorter. Walking may become unsteady, and there is less arm
swinging. Older people get tired more easily and have less energy.

Strength and endurance change. Loss of muscle mass reduces strength.

COMMON PROBLEMS

Osteoporosis is a common problem, especially for older women. Bones break more
easily. Compression fractures of the vertebrae can cause pain and reduce
mobility.

Muscle weakness contributes to fatigue, weakness, and reduced activity
tolerance. Joint problems ranging from mild stiffness to debilitating
arthritis (osteoarthritis) areÂ very common.

The risk of injury increases because gait changes, instability, and loss of
balance may lead to falls.

Some older people have reduced reflexes. This is most often caused by changes
in the muscles and tendons, rather than changes in the nerves. Decreased knee
jerk or ankle jerk can occur. Some changes, such as a positive Babinski
reflex, are not a normal part of aging.

Involuntary movements (muscle tremors and fine movements called
fasciculations) are more common in the older people. Older people who are not
active may have weakness or abnormal sensations (paresthesias).

People who are unable to move on their own, or who do not stretch their
muscles with exercise, may get muscle contractures.

PREVENTION

Exercise is one of the best ways to slow or prevent problems with the muscles,
joints, and bones. A moderate exercise program can help you maintain strength,
balance, and flexibility. Exercise helps the bones stay strong.

Talk to your health care provider before starting a new exercise program.

It is important to eat a well-balanced diet with plenty of calcium. Women need
to be particularly careful to get enough calcium and vitamin D as they age.
Postmenopausal women and men over age 70 should take in 1,200 mg of calcium
per day. Women and men over age 70 should get 800 international units (IU) of
vitamin D daily. If you have osteoporosis, talk to your provider about
prescription treatments.

RELATED TOPICS

    * Aging changes in body shape
    * Aging changes in hormone production
    * Aging changes in organs, tissues, and cells
    * Aging changes in the nervous system
    * Calcium in diet
    * Osteoporosis

## Alternative Names

Osteoporosis and aging; Muscle weakness associated with aging; Osteoarthritis

## Images

    * ![Osteoarthritis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17103t.jpg)Osteoarthritis
    * ![Osteoarthritis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17105t.jpg)Osteoarthritis
    * ![Osteoporosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17287t.jpg)Osteoporosis
    * ![Flexibility exercise](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19391t.jpg)Flexibility exercise
    * ![The structure of a joint](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19399t.jpg)The structure of a joint

## References

Gregson CL. Bone and joint aging. In: Fillit HM, Rockwood K, Young J, eds.
_Brocklehurst's Textbook of Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 20.

US Department of Health & Human Services. National Institutes of Health,
Office of Dietary Supplements website. Vitamin D: fact sheet for health
professionals. ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/VitaminD-HealthProfessional. Updated
March 2, 2018. Accessed July 24, 2018.

Walston JD. Common clinical sequelae of aging. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 25.

Weber TJ. Osteoporosis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 243.

## Review Date 7/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bone Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bone
Diseases _Read more_

![Joint Disorder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/JointDisorder_thumb.jpg)Joint
Disorders _Read more_

![Muscle
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MuscleDisorders_thumb.jpg)Muscle
Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

