Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/004023.htm    
                                Description: The brain and nervous system are your body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Aging changes in the nervous system

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/004023.htm

# Aging changes in the nervous system

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The brain and nervous system are your body's central control center. They
control your body's:

    * Movements
    * Senses
    * Thoughts and memories 

They also help control the organs such as your heart and bowels.

Nerves are the pathways that carry signals to and from your brain and the rest
of your body. The spinal cord is the bundle of nerves that runs from your
brain down the center of your back. Nerves extend out from the spinal cord to
every part of your body.

AGING CHANGES AND THEIR EFFECTS ON THE NERVOUS SYSTEM

As you age, your brain and nervous system go through natural changes. Your
brain and spinal cord lose nerve cells and weight (atrophy). Nerve cells may
begin to pass messages more slowly than in the past. Waste products can
collect in the brain tissue as nerve cells break down. This can cause abnormal
changes in the brain called plaques and tangles to form. A fatty brown pigment
(lipofuscin) can also build up in nerve tissue.

Breakdown of nerves can affect your senses. You might have reduced or lost
reflexes or sensation. This leads to problems with movement and safety.

Slowing of thought, memory, and thinking is a normal part of aging. These
changes are not the same in everyone. Some people have many changes in their
nerves and brain tissue. Others have few changes. These changes are not always
related to the effects on your ability to think.

NERVOUS SYSTEM PROBLEMS IN OLDER PEOPLE

Dementia and severe memory loss are not a normal part of aging. They can be
caused by brain diseases such as Alzheimer disease, which doctors believe is
associated with plaques and tangles forming in the brain and the buildup of
lipofuscin.

Delirium is sudden confusion that leads to changes in thinking and behavior.
It is often due to illnesses that are not related to the brain. Infection can
cause an older person to become severely confused. Certain medicines can also
cause this.

Thinking and behavior problems can also be caused by poorly controlled
diabetes. Rising and falling blood sugar levels can interfere with thought.

Talk with your health care provider if you have any changes in:

    * Memory
    * Thought
    * Ability to perform a task 

Seek medical help right away if these symptoms occur suddenly or along with
other symptoms. A change in thinking, memory, or behavior is important if it
is different from your normal patterns or it affects your lifestyle.

PREVENTION

Mental and physical exercise can help your brain stay sharp. Mental exercises
include:

    * Reading
    * Doing crossword puzzles
    * Stimulating conversation 

Physical exercise promotes blood flow to your brain. It also helps reduce loss
of brain cells.

OTHER CHANGES

As you grow older, you will have other changes, including:

    * In organs, tissues, and cells
    * In the heart and blood vessels
    * In the vital signs
    * In the senses

## Images

    * ![Brain and nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8680t.jpg)Brain and nervous system
    * ![Alzheimer disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23214t.jpg)Alzheimer disease

## References

Botelho RV, Fernandes de Oliveira M, Kuntz C. Differential diagnosis of spinal
disease. In: Winn HR, ed. _Youmans and Winn Neurological Surgery_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 280.

Martin J, Li C. Normal cognitive aging. In: Fillit HM, Rockwood K, Young J,
eds. _Brocklehurst's Textbook of Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier, 2017:chap 28.

Sowa GA, Weiner DK, Camacho-Soto A. Geriatric pain. In: Benzon HT, Raja SN,
Liu SS, Fishman SM, Cohen SP, eds. _Essentials of Pain Medicine_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 41.

## Review Date 7/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Seniors' Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SeniorHealth_thumb.jpg)Older
Adult Health _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

