Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003998.htm    
                                Description: Your body shape changes naturally as you age. You cannot avoid some of these changes, but your lifestyle choices may slow or speed the process.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Aging changes in body shape

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003998.htm

# Aging changes in body shape

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your body shape changes naturally as you age. You cannot avoid some of these
changes, but your lifestyle choices may slow or speed the process.

The human body is made up of fat, lean tissue (muscles and organs), bones, and
water. After age 30, people tend to lose lean tissue. Your muscles, liver,
kidney, and other organs may lose some of their cells. This process of muscle
loss is called atrophy. Bones may lose some of their minerals and become less
dense (a condition called osteopenia in the early stages and osteoporosis in
the later stages). Tissue loss reduces the amount of water in your body.

The amount of body fat goes up steadily after age 30. Older people may have
almost one third more fat compared to when they were younger. Fat tissue
builds up toward the center of the body, including around the internal organs.
However, the layer of fat under the skin gets smaller.

The tendency to become shorter occurs among all races and both sexes. Height
loss is related to aging changes in the bones, muscles, and joints. People
typically lose almost one-half inch (about 1 centimeter) every 10 years after
age 40. Height loss is even more rapid after age 70. You may lose a total of 1
to 3 inches (2.5 to 7.5 centimeters) in height as you age. You can help
prevent height loss by following a healthy diet, staying physically active,
and preventing and treating bone loss.

Less leg muscles and stiffer joints can make moving around harder. Excess body
fat and changes in body shape can affect your balance. These body changes can
make falls more likely.

Changes in total body weight vary for men and woman. Men often gain weight
until about age 55, and then begin to lose weight later in life. This may be
related to a drop in the male sex hormone testosterone. Women usually gain
weight until age 65, and then begin to lose weight. Weight loss later in life
occurs partly because fat replaces lean muscle tissue, and fat weighs less
than muscle. Diet and exercise habits can play a large role in a person's
weight changes over their lifetime.

Your lifestyle choices affect how quickly the aging process takes place. Some
things you can do to reduce age-related body changes are:

    * Get regular exercise.
    * Eat a healthy diet that includes fruits and vegetables, whole grains, and the right amounts of healthy fats.
    * Limit your alcohol use.
    * Avoid tobacco products and illicit drugs. 

## References

Shah K, Villareal DT. Obesity. In: Fillit HM, Rockword K, Young J, eds.
_Brocklehurst's Textbook of Geriatric Medicine_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 80.

Walston JD. Common clinical sequelae of aging. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 25.

## Review Date 7/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Seniors' Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SeniorHealth_thumb.jpg)Older
Adult Health _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

