Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/004018.htm    
                                Description: Sleep normally occurs in several stages. The sleep cycle includes:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Aging changes in sleep

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/004018.htm

# Aging changes in sleep

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sleep normally occurs in several stages. The sleep cycle includes:

    * Dreamless periods of light and deep sleep
    * Some periods of active dreaming (REM sleep) 

The sleep cycle is repeated several times during the night.

AGING CHANGES

With aging, sleep patterns tend to change. Most people find that aging causes
them to have a harder time falling asleep. They awaken more often during the
night and earlier in the morning.

Total sleep time stays the same or is slightly decreased (6.5 to 7 hours per
night). It may be harder to fall asleep and you may spend more total time in
bed. The transition between sleep and waking up is often abrupt, which makes
older people feel like they are a lighter sleeper than when they were younger.

Less time is spent in deep, dreamless sleep. Older people wake up an average
of 3 or 4 times each night. They are also more aware of being awake.

Older people wake up more often because they spend less time deep sleep. Other
causes include needing to get up and urinate (nocturia), anxiety, and
discomfort or pain from long-term (chronic) illnesses.

EFFECT OF CHANGES

Sleep difficulty is an annoying problem. Long-term (chronic) insomnia is a
major cause of auto accidents and depression. Because older people sleep more
lightly and wake up more often, they may feel deprived of sleep even when
their total sleep time has not changed.

Sleep deprivation can eventually cause confusion and other mental changes. It
is treatable, though. You can reduce symptoms when you get enough sleep.

Sleep problems are also a common symptom of depression. See a health care
provider to find out whether depression or another health condition is
affecting your sleep.

COMMON PROBLEMS

    * Insomnia is one of the more common sleep problems in older people.
    * Other sleep disorders, such as restless legs syndrome, narcolepsy, or hypersomnia can also occur.
    * Sleep apnea, where breathing stops for a time during sleep, can cause severe problems. 

PREVENTION

Older people respond differently to medicines than do younger adults. It is
very important to talk with a provider before taking sleep medicines. Avoid
sleep medicines, if possible. However, antidepressant medicines can be very
helpful if depression affects your sleep. Some antidepressants do not cause
the same side effects as sleep medicines.

Sometimes, a mild antihistamine works better than a sleeping pill for
relieving short-term insomnia. However, most health experts do not recommend
these types of medicines for older people.

Use sleep medicines (such as benzodiazepines) only as recommended, and only
for a short time. Some of these medicines can lead to dependence (needing to
take the drug to function) or addiction (compulsive use despite adverse
consequences). Some of these drugs build up in your body. You can develop
toxic effects such as confusion, delirium, and falls if you take them for a
long time.

You can take measures to help you sleep:

    * A light bedtime snack may be helpful. Many people find that warm milk increases sleepiness, because it contains a natural, sedative-like amino acid.
    * Avoid stimulants such as caffeine (found in coffee, tea, cola drinks, and chocolate) for at least 3 or 4 hours before bed.
    * DO NOT take naps during the day.
    * Exercise (moderately) in the afternoon.
    * Avoid too much stimulation, such as violent TV shows or computer games, before sleep. Practice relaxation techniques at bedtime.
    * Try to go to bed at the same time every night and wake at the same time each morning.
    * Use the bed only for sleep or sexual activity.
    * Avoid tobacco products, especially before sleep.
    * Ask your provider if any of the medicines you take may affect your sleep. 

If you cannot fall asleep after 20 minutes, get out of bed and do a quiet
activity, such as reading or listening to music.

When you feel sleepy, get back in bed and try again. If you still cannot fall
asleep in 20 minutes, repeat the process.

Drinking alcohol at bedtime may make you sleepy. However, it is best to avoid
alcohol, because it can make you wake up later in the night.

RELATED TOPICS

    * Aging changes in the nervous system
    * Insomnia

## Images

    * ![Sleep patterns in the young and aged](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8692t.jpg)Sleep patterns in the young and aged

## References

Barczi SR, Teodorescu MC. Psychiatric and medical comorbidities and effects of
medications in older adults. In: Kryger M, Roth T, Dement WC, eds. _Principles
and Practice of Sleep Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap
151.

Sterniczuk R, Rusak B. Sleep in relation to aging, frailty, and cognition. In:
Fillit HM, Rockwood K, Young J, eds. _Brocklehurst's Textbook of Geriatric
Medicine and Gerontology_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 108.

Walston JD. Common clinical sequelae of aging. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 25.

## Review Date 7/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Healthy Sleep](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HealthySleep_thumb.jpg)Healthy
Sleep _Read more_

![Seniors' Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SeniorHealth_thumb.jpg)Older
Adult Health _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

