Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001045.htm    
                                Description: Age-related hearing loss, or presbycusis, is the slow loss of hearing that occurs as people get older.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Age-related hearing loss

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001045.htm

# Age-related hearing loss

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Age-related hearing loss, or presbycusis, is the slow loss of hearing that
occurs as people get older.

## Causes

Tiny hair cells inside your inner ear help you hear. They pick up sound waves
and change them into the nerve signals that the brain interprets as sound.
Hearing loss occurs when the tiny hair cells are damaged or die. The hair
cells DO NOT regrow, so most hearing loss caused by hair cell damage is
permanent.

There is no known single cause of age-related hearing loss. Most commonly, it
is caused by changes in the inner ear that occur as you grow older. Your genes
and loud noise (from rock concerts or music headphones) may play a large role.

The following factors contribute to age-related hearing loss:

    * Family history (age-related hearing loss tends to run in families)
    * Repeated exposure to loud noises
    * Smoking (smokers are more likely to have such hearing loss than nonsmokers)
    * Certain medical conditions, such as diabetes
    * Certain medicines, such as chemotherapy drugs for cancer

## Symptoms

Loss of hearing often occurs slowly over time.

Symptoms include:

    * Difficulty hearing people around you
    * Frequently asking people to repeat themselves
    * Frustration at not being able to hear
    * Certain sounds seeming overly loud
    * Problems hearing in noisy areas
    * Problems telling apart certain sounds, such as "s" or "th"
    * More difficulty understanding people with higher-pitched voices
    * Ringing in the ears 

Talk to your health care provider if you have any of these symptoms. Symptoms
of presbycusis may be like symptoms of other medical problems.

## Exams and Tests

Your provider will do a complete physical exam. This helps find if a medical
problem is causing your hearing loss. Your provider will use an instrument
called an otoscope to look in your ears. Sometimes, earwax can block the ear
canals and cause hearing loss.

You may be sent to an ear, nose, and throat doctor and a hearing specialist
(audiologist). Hearing tests can help determine the extent of hearing loss.

## Treatment

There is no cure for age-related hearing loss. Treatment is focused on
improving your everyday function. The following may be helpful:

    * Hearing aids
    * Telephone amplifiers and other assistive devices
    * Sign language (for those with severe hearing loss)
    * Speech reading (lip reading and using visual cues to aid communication)
    * A cochlear implant may be recommended for people with severe hearing loss. Surgery is done to place the implant. The implant allows the person to detect sounds again and with practice can allow the person to understand speech, but it does not restore normal hearing. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Age-related hearing loss most often gets worse slowly. The hearing loss cannot
be reversed and may lead to deafness.

Hearing loss may cause you to avoid leaving home. Seek help from your provider
and family and friends to avoid becoming isolated. Hearing loss can be managed
so that you can continue to live a full and active life.

## Possible Complications

Hearing loss can result in both physical (not hearing a fire alarm) and
psychological (social isolation) problems.

The hearing loss may lead to deafness.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Hearing loss should be checked as soon as possible. This helps rule out causes
such as too much wax in the ear or side effects of medicines. Your provider
should have you get a hearing test.

Contact your provider right away if you have a sudden change in your hearing
or hearing loss with other symptoms, such as:

    * Headache
    * Vision changes
    * Dizziness

## Alternative Names

Hearing loss - age related; Presbycusis

## Images

    * ![Ear anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23221t.jpg)Ear anatomy

## References

Emmett SD, Seshamani M. Otolaryngology in the elderly. In: Flint PW, Haughey
BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 16.

Kerber KA, Baloh RW. Neuro-otology: diagnosis and management of neuro-
otological disorders. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL,
eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 46.

Weinstein B. Disorders of hearing. In: Fillit HM, Rockwood K, Young J, eds.
_Brocklehurst's Textbook of Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 96.

## Review Date 11/4/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hearing Disorders and
Deafness](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HearingDisordersandDeafness_thumb.jpg)Hearing
Disorders and Deafness _Read more_

![Seniors' Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SeniorHealth_thumb.jpg)Older
Adult Health _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

