Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/004017.htm    
                                Description: Aging changes in the male reproductive system may include changes in testicular tissue, sperm production, and erectile function. These changes usually occur gradually.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Aging changes in the male reproductive system

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/004017.htm

# Aging changes in the male reproductive system

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Aging changes in the male reproductive system may include changes in
testicular tissue, sperm production, and erectile function. These changes
usually occur gradually.

## Information

Unlike women, men do not experience a major, rapid (over several months)
change in fertility as they age (like menopause). Instead, changes occur
gradually during a process that some people call andropause.

Aging changes in the male reproductive system occur primarily in the testes.
Testicular tissue mass decreases. The level of the male sex hormone,
testosterone decreases gradually. There may be problems getting an erection.
This is a general slowing, instead of a complete lack of function.

FERTILITY

The tubes that carry sperm may become less elastic (a process called
sclerosis). The testes continue to produce sperm, but the rate of sperm cell
production slows. The epididymis, seminal vesicles, and prostate gland lose
some of their surface cells. But they continue to produce the fluid that helps
carry sperm.

URINARY FUNCTION

The prostate gland enlarges with age as some of the prostate tissue is
replaced with a scar like tissue. This condition, called benign prostatic
hyperplasia (BPH), affects about 50% of men. BPH may cause problems with
slowed urination and ejaculation.

In both men and women, reproductive system changes are closely related to
changes in the urinary system.

EFFECT OF CHANGES

Fertility varies from man to man. Age does not predict male fertility.
Prostate function does not affect fertility. A man can father children, even
if his prostate gland has been removed. Some fairly old men can (and do)
father children.

The volume of fluid ejaculated usually remains the same, but there are fewer
living sperm in the fluid.

Some men may have a lower sex drive (libido). Sexual responses may become
slower and less intense. This may be related to decreased testosterone level.
It may also result from psychological or social changes due to aging (such as
the lack of a willing partner), illness, long-term (chronic) conditions, or
medicines.

Aging by itself does not prevent a man from being able to enjoy sexual
relationships.

COMMON PROBLEMS

Erectile dysfunction (ED) may be a concern for aging men. It is normal for
erections to occur less often than when a man was younger. Aging men are often
less able to have repeated ejaculations.

ED is most often the result of a medical problem, rather than simple aging.
Ninety percent of ED is believed to be caused by a medical problem instead of
a psychological problem.

Medicines (such as those used to treat hypertension and certain other
conditions) can prevent a man from getting or keeping enough of an erection
for intercourse. Disorders, such as diabetes, can also cause ED.

ED that is caused by medicines or illness is often successfully treated. Talk
to your primary health care provider or a urologist if you are concerned about
this condition.

BPH may eventually interfere with urination. The enlarged prostate partially
blocks the tube that drains the bladder (urethra). Changes in the prostate
gland make older men more likely to have urinary tract infections.

Urine may back up into the kidneys (vesicoureteral reflux) if the bladder is
not fully drained. If this is not treated, it can eventually lead to kidney
failure.

Prostate gland infections or inflammation (prostatitis) may also occur.

Prostate cancer becomes more likely as men age. It is one of the most common
causes of cancer death in men. Bladder cancer also becomes more common with
age. Testicular cancers are possible, but these occur more often in younger
men.

PREVENTION

Many physical age-related changes, such as prostate enlargement or testicular
atrophy, are not preventable. Getting treated for health disorders such as
high blood pressure and diabetes may prevent problems with urinary and sexual
function.

Changes in sexual response are most often related to factors other than simple
aging. Older men are more likely to have good sex if they continue to be
sexually active during middle age.

RELATED TOPICS

    * Aging changes in hormone production
    * Aging changes in organs, tissues, and cells
    * Aging changes in the kidneys

## Alternative Names

Andropause; Male reproductive changes

## Images

    * ![Young male reproductive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8677t.jpg)Young male reproductive system
    * ![Aged male reproductive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8678t.jpg)Aged male reproductive system

## References

Brinton RD. Neuroendocrinology of aging. In: Fillit HM, Rockwood K, Young J,
eds. _Brocklehurst's Textbook of Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 13.

Lamberts SWJ, van den Beld AW. Endocrinology and aging. In: Melmed S, Polonsky
KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 27.

Walston JD. Common clinical sequelae of aging. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 25.

## Review Date 7/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Men's Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MensHealth2_thumb.jpg)Men's
Health _Read more_

![Seniors' Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SeniorHealth_thumb.jpg)Older
Adult Health _Read more_

![Sexual Problems in
Men](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SexualProblemsinMen_thumb.jpg)Sexual
Problems in Men _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

