Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/004010.htm    
                                Description: The kidneys filter the blood and help remove wastes and extra fluid from the body. The kidneys also help control the body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Aging changes in the kidneys and bladder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/004010.htm

# Aging changes in the kidneys and bladder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The kidneys filter the blood and help remove wastes and extra fluid from the
body. The kidneys also help control the body's chemical balance.

The kidneys are part of the urinary system, which also includes the ureters,
bladder, and urethra.

Muscle changes and changes in the reproductive system can affect bladder
control.

AGING CHANGES AND THEIR EFFECTS ON THE KIDNEYS AND BLADDER  

As you age, your kidneys and bladder change. This can affect their function.

Changes in the kidneys that occur with age:

    * Amount of kidney tissue decreases.
    * Number of filtering units (nephrons) decreases. Nephrons filter waste material from the blood.
    * Blood vessels supplying the kidneys can become hardened. This causes the kidneys to filter blood more slowly. 

Changes in the bladder:

    * The bladder wall changes. The elastic tissue becomes tough and the bladder becomes less stretchy. The bladder cannot hold as much urine as before.
    * The bladder muscles weaken.
    * The urethra can become blocked. In women, this can be due to weakened muscles that cause the bladder or vagina to fall out of position (prolapse). In men, the urethra can become blocked by an enlarged prostate gland. 

In a healthy aging person, kidney function remains normal. But illness,
medicines, and other conditions can affect kidney function.

COMMON PROBLEMS

Aging increases the risk of kidney and bladder problems such as:

    * Bladder control issues, such as leakage or urinary incontinence (not being able to hold your urine), or urinary retention (not being able to completely empty your bladder)
    * Bladder and other urinary tract infections (UTIs)
    * Chronic kidney disease

WHEN TO CONTACT A MEDICAL PROFESSIONAL

Call your health care provider right away if you have any of the following:

    * Signs of a urinary tract infection, including fever or chills, burning when urinating, nausea and vomiting, extreme tiredness, or low back pain
    * Very dark urine or fresh blood in the urine
    * Trouble urinating
    * Urinating more often than usual
    * Sudden need to urinate (urinary urgency) 

As you grow older, you will have other changes, including:

    * In the bones, muscles, and joints
    * In the male reproductive system
    * In the female reproductive system
    * In organs, tissues, and cells

## Images

    * ![Changes in kidney with age](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8674t.jpg)Changes in kidney with age

## References

Griebling TL. Aging and geriatric urology. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin
AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 88.

Smith PP, Kuche GA. Aging of the urinary tract. In: Fillit HM, Rockwood K,
Young J, eds. _Brocklehurst's Textbook of Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology_.
8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 22.

Walston JD. Common clinical sequelae of aging. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 25.

## Review Date 7/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![Seniors' Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SeniorHealth_thumb.jpg)Older
Adult Health _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

