Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/004011.htm    
                                Description: The lungs have two main functions. One is to get oxygen from the air into the body. The other is to remove carbon dioxide from the body. Your body needs oxygen to work properly. Carbon dioxide is a gas    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Aging changes in the lungs

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/004011.htm

# Aging changes in the lungs

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The lungs have two main functions. One is to get oxygen from the air into the
body. The other is to remove carbon dioxide from the body. Your body needs
oxygen to work properly. Carbon dioxide is a gas the body produces when it
uses oxygen.

![Breathing](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200020t.gif)Watch this
video about:Breathing

During breathing, air enters and exits the lungs. When you breathe in
(inhale), air flows through the airways into the lungs. The airways are made
of stretchy tissue. Bands of muscle and other support tissue wrap around each
airway to help keep them open.

Air keeps flowing into the lungs until it fills tiny air sacs. Blood
circulates around these air sacs through tiny blood vessels. Oxygen crosses
into the bloodstream at the place where the blood vessels and air sacs meet.
This is also where carbon dioxide crosses from the bloodstream into the lungs
to be breathed out (exhaled).

![Gas exchange](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200022t.gif)Watch
this video about:Gas exchange

AGING CHANGES IN YOUR BODY AND THEIR AFFECTS ON THE LUNGS

Changes to the bones and muscles of the chest and spine:

    * Bones become thinner and change shape. This can change the shape of your ribcage. As a result, your ribcage cannot expand and contract as well during breathing.
    * The muscle that supports your breathing, the diaphragm, becomes weakened. This weakness may prevent you from breathing enough air in or out. 

These changes in your bones and muscles may lower the oxygen level in your
body. Also, less carbon dioxide may be removed from your body. Symptoms such
as tiredness and shortness of breath can result.

Changes to lung tissue:

    * Muscles and other tissues that are near your airways may lose their ability to keep the airways completely open. This causes the airways to close easily.
    * Aging also causes the air sacs to lose their shape and become baggy. 

These changes in lung tissue can allow air to get trapped in your lungs. Too
little oxygen may enter your blood vessels and less carbon dioxide may be
removed. This makes it hard to breathe.

Changes to the nervous system:

    * The part of the brain that controls breathing may lose some of its function. When this happens, your lungs are not able to get enough oxygen. Not enough carbon dioxide may leave the lungs. Breathing may get more difficult.
    * Nerves in your airways that trigger coughing become less sensitive. Large amounts of particles like smoke or germs may collect in the lungs and may be hard to cough up. 

Changes to the immune system:

    * Your immune system can get weaker. This means your body is less able to fight lung infections and other diseases.
    * Your lungs are also less able to recover after exposure to smoke or other harmful particles. 

COMMON PROBLEMS

As a result of these changes, older people are at increased risk for:

    * Lung infections, such as pneumonia and bronchitis
    * Shortness of breath
    * Low oxygen level
    * Abnormal breathing patterns, resulting in problems such as sleep apnea (episodes of stopped breathing during sleep) 

PREVENTION

To decrease the effects of aging on the lungs:

    * DO NOT smoke. Smoking harms the lungs and speeds up lung aging.
    * Do physical exercise to improve lung function.
    * Get up and move. Lying in bed or sitting for long periods allows mucus to collect in the lungs. This puts you at risk of lung infections. This is especially true right after surgery or when you are ill. 

OTHER CHANGES RELATED TO AGING

As you grow older, you will have other changes, including:

    * In organs, tissues, and cells
    * In the bones, muscles, and joints
    * In the heart and blood vessels
    * In vital signs

## Images

    * ![Respiratory cilia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19533t.jpg)Respiratory cilia
    * ![Changes in lung tissue with age](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8676t.jpg)Changes in lung tissue with age

## References

Amin P, Smith AM. Pulmonary disease. In: Ham RJ, Sloane PD, Warshaw GA, Potter
JF, Flaherty E, eds. _Ham's Primary Care Geriatrics: A Case-Based Approach_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 48.

Davies GA, Bolton CE. Age-related changes in the respiratory system. In:
Fillit HM, Rockwood K, Young J, eds. _Brocklehurst's Textbook of Geriatric
Medicine and Gerontology_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 17.

Walston JD. Common clinical sequelae of aging. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 25.

## Review Date 7/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lung Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lung
Diseases _Read more_

![Seniors' Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SeniorHealth_thumb.jpg)Older
Adult Health _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

