Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/004005.htm    
                                Description: Your hair and nails help protect your body. They also keep the temperature of your body steady. As you age, your hair and nails begin to change.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Aging changes in hair and nails

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/004005.htm

# Aging changes in hair and nails

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your hair and nails help protect your body. They also keep the temperature of
your body steady. As you age, your hair and nails begin to change.

HAIR CHANGES AND THEIR EFFECTS

**Hair color change**. This is one of the clearest signs of aging. Hair color
is due to a pigment called melanin, which hair follicles produce. Follicles
are structures in the skin that make and grow hair. With aging, the follicles
make less melanin, and this causes gray hair. Graying often begins in the 30s.

Scalp hair often starts graying at the temples and extends to the top of the
scalp. Hair color becomes lighter, eventually turning white.

Body and facial hair also turn gray, but most often, this happens later than
scalp hair. Hair in the armpit, chest, and pubic area may gray less or not at
all.

Graying is largely determined by your genes. Gray hair tends to occur earlier
in white people and later in Asians. Nutritional supplements, vitamins, and
other products will not stop or decrease the rate of graying.

 **Hair thickness change**. Hair is made of many protein strands. A single
hair has a normal life between 2 and 7 years. That hair then falls out and is
replaced with a new hair. How much hair you have on your body and head is also
determined by your genes.

Nearly everyone has some hair loss with aging. The rate of hair growth also
slows.

Hair strands become smaller and have less pigment. So the thick, coarse hair
of a young adult eventually becomes thin, fine, light-colored hair. Many hair
follicles stop producing new hairs.

Men may start showing signs of baldness by the time they are 30 years old.
Many men are nearly bald by age 60. A type of baldness related to the male
hormone testosterone is called male-pattern baldness. Hair loss may be at the
temples or at the top of the head.

Women can develop a similar type of baldness as they age. This is called
female-pattern baldness. Hair becomes less dense and the scalp may become
visible.

As you age, your body and face also lose hair. Women's remaining facial hair
may get coarser, most often on the chin and around the lips. Men may grow
longer and coarser eyebrow, ear, and nose hair.

Contact your health care provider if you have sudden hair loss. This can be a
symptom of a health problem.

NAIL CHANGES AND THEIR EFFECTS

Your nails also change with age. They grow more slowly and may become dull and
brittle. They may also become yellowed and opaque.

Nails, particularly toenails, may become hard and thick. Ingrown toenails may
be more common. The tips of the fingernails may break.

Lengthwise ridges may develop in the fingernails and toenails.

Check with your provider if your nails develop pits, ridges, lines, changes in
shape, or other changes. These can be related to iron deficiency, kidney
disease, and nutritional deficiencies.

OTHER CHANGES

As you grow older, you will have other changes, including:

    * In the skin
    * In the face

## Images

    * ![Hair follicle of young person](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8669t.jpg)Hair follicle of young person
    * ![Aged hair follicle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8670t.jpg)Aged hair follicle
    * ![Aging changes in nails](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8671t.jpg)Aging changes in nails

## References

Habif TP. Hair diseases. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical Dermatology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 24.

Habif TP. Nail diseases. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical Dermatology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 25.

Tosti A. Diseases of hair and nails. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 442.

Walston JD. Common clinical sequelae of aging. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 25.

## Review Date 7/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hair Loss](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hairproblems_thumb.jpg)Hair
Problems _Read more_

![Nail Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NailDiseases_thumb.jpg)Nail
Diseases _Read more_

![Seniors' Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SeniorHealth_thumb.jpg)Older
Adult Health _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

