Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000132.htm    
                                Description: You were in the hospital after having a stroke. Stroke happens when blood flow to part of the brain stops.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Stroke - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000132.htm

# Stroke - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You were in the hospital after having a stroke. Stroke happens when blood flow
to part of the brain stops.

At home follow your health care provider's instructions on self-care. Use the
information below as a reminder.

## When You're in the Hospital

First, you received treatment to prevent further damage to the brain, and to
help the heart, lungs, and other important organs heal.

After you were stable, doctors did testing and started treatment to help you
recover from the stroke and prevent a future stroke. You may have stayed in a
special unit that helps people recover after a stroke.

## What to Expect at Home

Because of possible injury to the brain from the stroke, you may notice
problems with:

    * Changes in behavior
    * Doing easy tasks
    * Memory
    * Moving one side of the body
    * Muscle spasms
    * Paying attention
    * Sensation or awareness of one part of the body
    * Swallowing
    * Talking or understanding others
    * Thinking
    * Seeing to one side (hemianopia) 

You may need help with daily activities you used to do alone before the
stroke.

Depression after a stroke is fairly common as you learn to live with the
changes. It may develop soon after the stroke or up to 2 years after the
stroke.

DO NOT drive your car without your doctor's permission.

## Moving Around

Moving around and doing normal tasks may be hard after a stroke.

Make sure your home is safe. Ask your doctor, therapist, or nurse about making
changes in your home to make it easier to do everyday activities.

Find out about what you can do to prevent falls and keep your bathroom safe to
use.

Family and caregivers may need to help with:

    * Exercises to keep your elbows, shoulders, and other joints loose
    * Watching for joint tightening (contractures)
    * Making sure splints are used in the correct way
    * Making sure arms and legs are in a good position when sitting or lying 

If you or your loved one is using a wheelchair, follow-up visits to make sure
it fits well are important to prevent skin ulcers.

    * Check every day for pressure sores at the heels, ankles, knees, hips, tailbone, and elbows.
    * Change positions in the wheelchair several times per hour during the day to prevent pressure ulcers.
    * If you have problems with spasticity, learn what makes it worse. You or your caregiver can learn exercises to keep your muscles lose.
    * Learn how to prevent pressure ulcers. 

## Thinking and Speaking

Tips for making clothing easier to put on and take off are:

    * Velcro is much easier than buttons and zippers. All buttons and zippers should be on the front of a piece of the clothing.
    * Use pullover clothes and slip-on shoes. 

People who have had a stroke may have speech or language problems. Tips for
family and caregivers to improve communication include:

    * Keep distractions and noise down. Keep your voice lower. Move to a quieter room. DO NOT shout.
    * Allow plenty of time for the person to answer questions and understand instructions. After a stroke, it takes longer to process what has been said.
    * Use simple words and sentences, speak slowly. Ask questions in a way that can be answered with a yes or no. When possible, give clear choices. DO NOT give too many options.
    * Break down instructions into small and simple steps.
    * Repeat if needed. Use familiar names and places. Announce when you are going to change the subject.
    * Make eye contact before touching or speaking if possible.
    * Use props or visual prompts when possible. DO NOT give too many options. You may be able to use pointing or hand gestures or drawings. Use an electronic device, such as a tablet computer or cell phone, to show pictures to help with communication.

## Bowel Care

Nerves that help the bowels work smoothly can be damaged after a stroke. Have
a routine. Once you find a bowel routine that works, stick to it:

    * Pick a regular time, such as after a meal or a warm bath, to try to have a bowel movement.
    * Be patient. It may take 15 to 45 minutes to have bowel movements.
    * Try gently rubbing your stomach to help stool move through your colon. 

Avoid constipation:

    * Drink more fluids.
    * Stay active or become more active as much as possible.
    * Eat foods with lots of fiber. 

Ask your provider about medicines you are taking that may cause constipation
(such as medicines for depression, pain, bladder control, and muscle spasms).

## Tips for Taking Medicines

Have all of your prescriptions filled before you go home. It is very important
that you take your medicines the way your provider told you to. DO NOT take
any other drugs, supplements, vitamins, or herbs without asking your provider
about them first.

You may be given one or more of the following medicines. These are meant to
control your blood pressure or cholesterol, and to keep your blood from
clotting. They may help prevent another stroke:

    * Antiplatelet medicines (aspirin or clopidogrel) help keep your blood from clotting.
    * Beta blockers, diuretics (water pills), and ACE inhibitor medicines control your blood pressure and protect your heart.
    * Statins lower your cholesterol.
    * If you have diabetes, control your blood sugar at the level your provider recommends. 

DO NOT stop taking any of these medicines.

If you are taking a blood thinner, such as warfarin (Coumadin), you may need
to have extra blood tests done.

## Staying Healthy

If you have problems with swallowing, you must learn to follow a special diet
that makes eating safer. The signs of swallowing problems are choking or
coughing when eating. Learn tips to make feeding and swallowing easier and
safer.

Avoid salty and fatty foods and stay away from fast food restaurants to make
your heart and blood vessels healthier.

Limit how much alcohol you drink to a maximum of 1 drink a day if you are a
woman and 2 drinks a day if you are a man. Ask your provider if it is OK for
you to drink alcohol.

Keep up to date with your vaccinations. Get a flu shot every year. Ask your
doctor if you need a pneumonia shot.

DO NOT smoke. Ask your provider for help quitting if you need to. DO NOT let
anybody smoke in your home.

Try to stay away from stressful situations. If you feel stressed all the time
or feel very sad, talk with your provider.

If you feel sad or depressed at times, talk to family or friends about this.
Ask your provider about seeking professional help.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have:

    * Problems taking drugs for muscle spasms
    * Problems moving your joints (joint contracture)
    * Problems moving around or getting out of your bed or chair
    * Skin sores or redness
    * Pain that is becoming worse
    * Recent falls
    * Choking or coughing when eating
    * Signs of a bladder infection (fever, burning when you urinate, or frequent urination)

Call 911 if the following symptoms develop suddenly or are new:

    * Numbness or weakness of the face, arm, or leg
    * Blurry or decreased vision
    * Not able to speak or understand
    * Dizziness, loss of balance, or falling
    * Severe headache

## Alternative Names

Cerebrovascular disease - discharge; CVA - discharge; Cerebral infarction -
discharge; Cerebral hemorrhage - discharge; Ischemic stroke - discharge;
Stroke - ischemic - discharge; Stroke secondary to atrial fibrillation -
discharge; Cardioembolic stroke - discharge; Brain bleeding - discharge; Brain
hemorrhage - discharge; Stroke - hemorrhagic - discharge; Hemorrhagic
cerebrovascular disease - discharge; Cerebrovascular accident - discharge

## Images

    * ![Intracerebral hemorrhage](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8813t.jpg)Intracerebral hemorrhage

## References

Dobkin BH. Rehabilitation and recovery of the patient with stroke. In: Grotta
JC, Albers GW, Broderick JP, et al, eds. _Stroke: Pathophysiology, Diagnosis,
and Management_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 58.

Kernan WN, Ovbiagele B, Black HR, et al. Guidelines for the prevention of
stroke in patients with stroke and transient ischemic attack: a guideline for
healthcare professionals from the American Heart Association/American Stroke
Association. _Stroke_. 2014;45(7):2160-2236. PMID: 24788967
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24788967.

National Institutes of Health. National Institute of Neurological Disorders
and Stroke website. Post-stroke rehabilitation.
stroke.nih.gov/materials/rehabilitation.htm. Updated September 2014. Accessed
September 5, 2018.

Winstein CJ, Stein J, Arena R, et al. Guidelines for adult stroke
rehabilitation and recovery: a guideline for healthcare professionals from the
American Heart Association/American Stroke Association. _Stroke_.
2016;47(6):e98-e169. PMID: 27145936 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27145936.

## Read More

    * Brain aneurysm repair
    * Brain surgery
    * Carotid artery surgery
    * High blood cholesterol levels
    * Recovering after stroke
    * Stroke
    * Tips on how to quit smoking
    * Transient ischemic attack

## Patient Instructions

    * ACE inhibitors
    * Antiplatelet drugs - P2Y12 inhibitors
    * Aspirin and heart disease
    * Bathroom safety for adults
    * Brain surgery - discharge
    * Butter, margarine, and cooking oils
    * Caring for muscle spasticity or spasms 
    * Cholesterol and lifestyle
    * Cholesterol - drug treatment
    * Communicating with someone with aphasia
    * Communicating with someone with dysarthria
    * Constipation - self-care
    * Constipation - what to ask your doctor
    * Controlling your high blood pressure
    * Daily bowel care program
    * Dementia and driving
    * Dementia - behavior and sleep problems
    * Dementia - daily care
    * Dementia - keeping safe in the home
    * Dementia - what to ask your doctor 
    * Dietary fats explained
    * Fast food tips
    * Gastrostomy feeding tube - bolus
    * Jejunostomy feeding tube 
    * Kegel exercises - self-care
    * Low-salt diet 
    * Mediterranean diet
    * Pressure ulcers - what to ask your doctor 
    * Preventing falls
    * Preventing falls - what to ask your doctor 
    * Preventing pressure ulcers
    * Self catheterization - female
    * Self catheterization - male
    * Suprapubic catheter care
    * Swallowing problems 
    * Urine drainage bags
    * When you have urinary incontinence

## Review Date 7/29/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, FAAN, Attending Neurologist & Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, Stony Brook University School of Medicine,
Stony Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Hemorrhagic Stroke
    * Ischemic Stroke
    * Stroke

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

