Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003926.htm    
                                Description: Brainstem auditory evoked response (BAER) is a test to measure the brain wave activity that occurs in response to clicks or certain tones.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

BAER - brainstem auditory evoked response

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003926.htm

# BAER - brainstem auditory evoked response

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Brainstem auditory evoked response (BAER) is a test to measure the brain wave
activity that occurs in response to clicks or certain tones.

## How the Test is Performed

You lie on a reclining chair or bed and remain still. Electrodes are placed on
your scalp and on each earlobe. AÂ brief click or tone will be transmitted
through earphones you are wearing during the test. The electrodes pick up the
brain's responses to these sounds and record them. You do not need to be awake
for this test.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You may be asked to wash your hair the night before the test.

Young children often need medicine to help them relax (sedation) so they can
stay still during the procedure.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is done to:

    * Help diagnose nervous system problems and hearing loss (especially in newborns and children)
    * Find out how well the nervous system works
    * Check hearing ability in people who cannot do other hearing tests

This test may also be performed during surgery to decrease the risk for injury
to the hearing nerve and brain.

## Normal Results

Normal results vary. Results will depend on the person and the instruments
used to perform the test.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal test results may be a sign of hearing loss, multiple sclerosis,
acoustic neuroma, or stroke.

Abnormal results may also be due to:

    * Brain injury
    * Brain malformation
    * Brain tumor
    * Central pontine myelinolysis
    * Speech disorders

## Risks

There are no risks associated with this test.

## Alternative Names

Evoked auditory potentials; Brainstem auditory evoked potentials; Evoked
response audiometry; Auditory brainstem response; ABR; BAEP

## Images

    * ![Brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1074t.jpg)Brain
    * ![Brain wave monitor](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8730t.jpg)Brain wave monitor

## References

Brown CJ, Johnson TA. Electrophysiologic assessment of hearing. In: Flint PW,
Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 134.

Hahn CD, Emerson RG. Electroencephalography and evoked potentials. In: Daroff
RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 34.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hearing Disorders and
Deafness](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HearingDisordersandDeafness_thumb.jpg)Hearing
Disorders and Deafness _Read more_

![Multiple
Sclerosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MultipleSclerosis_thumb.jpg)Multiple
Sclerosis _Read more_

![Stroke](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Stroke_thumb.jpg)Stroke _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

