Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003931.htm    
                                Description: An electroencephalogram (EEG) is a test to measure the electrical activity of the brain.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

EEG

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003931.htm

# EEG

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An electroencephalogram (EEG) is a test to measure the electrical activity of
the brain.

## How the Test is Performed

The test is done by an electroencephalogram technologist in your doctor's
office or at a hospital or laboratory.

The test is done in the following way:

    * You lie on your back on a bed or in a reclining chair.
    * Flat metal disks called electrodes are placed all over your scalp. The disks are held in place with a sticky paste. The electrodes are connected by wires to a recording machine. The machine changes the electrical signals into patterns that can be seen on a monitor or drawn on paper. These patterns look like wavy lines.
    * You need to lie still during the test with your eyes closed. This is because movement can change the results. You may be asked to do certain things during the test, such as breathe fast and deeply for several minutes or look at a bright flashing light.
    * You may be asked to sleep during the test. 

If your doctor needs to monitor your brain activity for a longer period, an
ambulatory EEG will be ordered. In addition to the electrodes, you will wear
or carry a special recorder for up to 3 days. You will be able to go about
your normal routine as the EEG is being recorded. Or, your doctor may ask you
to stay overnight in a special EEG monitoring unit where your brain activity
will be monitored continuously.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Wash your hair the night before the test. DO NOT use conditioner, oils,
sprays, or gel on your hair. If you have a hair weave, ask your health care
provider for special instructions.

Your provider may want you to stop taking certain medicines before the test.
DO NOT change or stop taking any medicines without first talking to your
provider. Bring a list of your medicines with you.

Avoid all food and drinks containing caffeine for 8 hours before the test.

You may need to sleep during the test. If so, you may be asked to reduce your
sleep time the night before. If you are asked to sleep as little as possible
before the test, DO NOT eat or drink any caffeine, energy drinks, or other
products that help you stay awake.

Follow any other specific instructions you are given.

## How the Test will Feel

The electrodes may feel sticky and strange on your scalp, but should not cause
any other discomfort. You should not feel any discomfort during the test.

## Why the Test is Performed

Brain cells communicate with each other by producing tiny electrical signals,
called impulses. An EEG measures this activity. It can be used to diagnose or
monitor the following health conditions:

    * Seizures and epilepsy
    * Abnormal changes in body chemistry that affect the brain
    * Brain diseases, such as Alzheimer disease
    * Confusion
    * Fainting spells or periods of memory loss that cannot be explained otherwise
    * Head injuries
    * Infections
    * Tumors 

EEG is also used to:

    * Evaluate problems with sleep (sleep disorders)
    * Monitor the brain during brain surgery 

An EEG may be done to show that the brain has no activity, in the case of
someone who is in a deep coma. It can be helpful when trying to decide if a
person is brain dead.

EEG cannot be used to measure intelligence.

## Normal Results

Brain electrical activity has a certain number of waves per second
(frequencies) that are normal for different levels of alertness. For example,
brain waves are faster when you are awake and slower in certain stages of
sleep.

There are also normal patterns to these waves.

Note: A normal EEG does not mean that a seizure did not occur.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results on an EEG test may be due to:

    * Abnormal bleeding (hemorrhage)
    * An abnormal structure in the brain (such as a brain tumor)
    * Tissue death due to a blockage in blood flow (cerebral infarction)
    * Drug or alcohol abuse
    * Head injury
    * Migraines (in some cases)
    * Seizure disorder (such as epilepsy)
    * Sleep disorder (such as narcolepsy)
    * Swelling of the brain (edema) 

## Risks

An EEG test is very safe. The flashing lights or fast breathing
(hyperventilation) required during the test may trigger seizures in those with
seizure disorders. The provider performing the EEG is trained to take care of
you if this happens.

## Alternative Names

Electroencephalogram; Brain wave test; Epilepsy - EEG; Seizure - EEG

## Images

    * ![Brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1074t.jpg)Brain
    * ![Brain wave monitor](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8730t.jpg)Brain wave monitor

## References

Deluca GC, Griggs RC. Approach to the patient with neurologic disease. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 368.

Hahn CD, Emerson RG. Electroencephalography and evoked potentials. In: Daroff
RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 34.

## Review Date 2/4/2020

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, FAAN, Attending Neurologist and
Assistant Professor of Clinical Neurology, Stony Brook University School of
Medicine, Stony Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Brain Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainDiseases_thumb.jpg)Brain
Diseases _Read more_

![Coma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Coma_thumb.jpg)Coma _Read more_

![Epilepsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Epilepsy_thumb.jpg)Epilepsy _Read
more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

