Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003499.htm    
                                Description: The lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) isoenzyme test checks how much of the different types of LDH are in the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

LDH isoenzyme blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003499.htm

# LDH isoenzyme blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) isoenzyme test checks how much of the
different types of LDH are in the blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

The health care provider may tell you to temporarily stop taking certain
medicines before the test.

Drugs that can increase LDH measurements include:

    * Anesthetics
    * Aspirin
    * Colchicine
    * Clofibrate
    * Cocaine
    * Fluorides
    * Mithramycin
    * Narcotics
    * Procainamide 
    * Statins
    * Steroids (glucocorticoids)

DO NOT stop taking any medicine before talking to your provider.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel slight pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

LDH is an enzyme found in many body tissues such as the heart, liver, kidney,
skeletal muscle, brain, blood cells, and lungs. When body tissue is damaged,
LDH is released into the blood.

The LDH test helps determine the location of tissue damage.

LDH exists in five forms, which differ slightly in structure.

    * LDH-1 is found primarily in heart muscle and red blood cells.
    * LDH-2 is concentrated in white blood cells.
    * LDH-3 is highest in the lung.
    * LDH-4 is highest in the kidney, placenta, and pancreas.
    * LDH-5 is highest in the liver and skeletal muscle. 

All of these can be measured in the blood.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

LDH levels that are higher than normal may suggest:

    * Hemolytic anemia
    * Hypotension
    * Infectious mononucleosis
    * Intestinal ischemia (blood deficiency) and infarction (tissue death)
    * Ischemic cardiomyopathy
    * Liver disease such as hepatitis
    * Lung tissue death
    * Muscle injury
    * Muscular dystrophy
    * Pancreatitis
    * Lung tissue death
    * Stroke

## Risks

There is little risk in having your blood taken. Veins and arteries vary in
size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the other.
Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

LD; LDH; Lactic (lactate) dehydrogenase isoenzymes

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Carty RP, Pincus MR, Sarafraz-Yazdi E. Clinical enzymology. In: McPherson RA,
Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory
Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 20.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Lactate dehydrogenase (LD) isoenzymes. In: Chernecky
CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:702-703.

## Review Date 2/2/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Anemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anemia_thumb.jpg)Anemia _Read more_

![Cardiomyopathy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cardiomyopathy2_thumb.jpg)Cardiomyopathy
_Read more_

![Heart Attack](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartAttack_thumb.jpg)Heart
Attack _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

