Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007759.htm    
                                Description: Transcranial doppler ultrasound (TCD) is a diagnostic test. It measures blood flow to and within the brain.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Transcranial Doppler ultrasound

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007759.htm

# Transcranial Doppler ultrasound

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Transcranial doppler ultrasound (TCD) is a diagnostic test. It measures blood
flow to and within the brain.

## How the Test is Performed

TCD uses sound waves to create images of the blood flow inside the brain.

This is how the test is performed:

    * You will lie on your back on a padded table with your head and neck on a pillow. Your neck is stretched slightly. Or you may sit on a chair.
    * The technician applies a water-based gel on your temples and eyelids, under your jaw, and at the base of your neck. The gel helps the sound waves get into your tissues.
    * A wand, called a transducer, is moved over the area being tested. The wand sends out sound waves. The sound waves go through your body and bounce off the area being studied (in this case, your brain and blood vessels).
    * A computer looks at the pattern that the sound waves create when they bounce back. It creates a picture from the sound waves. The Doppler creates a "swishing" sound, which is the sound of your blood moving through the arteries and veins.
    * The test can take 30 minutes to 1 hour to complete.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is needed for this test. You do not need to change into
a medical gown.

Remember to:

    * Remove contact lenses before the test if you wear them.
    * Keep your eyes closed when gel is applied to your eyelids so you don't get it in your eyes.

## How the Test will Feel

The gel may feel cold on your skin. You may feel some pressure as the
transducer is moved around your head and neck. The pressure should not cause
any pain. You may also hear a "whooshing" sound. This is normal.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is done to detect conditions that affect blood flow to the brain:

    * Narrowing or blockage of the arteries in the brain
    * Stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA or ministroke)
    * Bleeding in the space between the brain and the tissues that cover the brain (subarachnoid hemorrhage)
    * Ballooning of a blood vessel in the brain (cerebral aneurysm)
    * Change in pressure inside the skull (intracranial pressure)
    * Sickle cell anemia, to assess stroke risk

## Normal Results

A normal report shows normal blood flow to the brain. There is no narrowing or
blockage in the blood vessels leading to and within the brain.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result means an artery may be narrowed or something is changing
the blood flow in the arteries of the brain.

## Risks

There are no risks with having this procedure.

## Alternative Names

Transcranial Doppler ultrasonography; TCD ultrasonography; TCD; Transcranial
Doppler study

## Images

    * ![Endarterectomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18059t.jpg)Endarterectomy
    * ![Cerebral aneurysm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19430t.jpg)Cerebral aneurysm
    * ![Transient Ischemic attack \(TIA\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8968t.jpg)Transient Ischemic attack (TIA)
    * ![Atherosclerosis of internal carotid artery](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18006t.jpg)Atherosclerosis of internal carotid artery

## References

Defresne A, Bonhomme V. Multimodal monitoring. In: Prabhakar H, ed.
_Essentials of Neuroanesthesia._ Cambridge, MA: Elsevier Academic Press;
2017:chap 9.

Ellis JA, Yocum GT, Ornstein E, Joshi S. Cerebral and spinal cord blood flow.
In: Cottrell JE, Patel P, eds. _Cottrell and Patel's Neuroanesthesia._ 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 2.

Matta B, Czosnyka M. Transcranial doppler ultrasonography in anesthesia and
neurosurgery. In: Cotrell JE, Patel P, eds. _Cottrell and Patel's
Neuroanesthesia._ 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 7.

Newell DW, Monteith SJ, Alexandrov AV. Diagnostic and therapeutic
neurosonology. In: Winn HR, ed. _Youmans and Winn Neurological Surgery._ 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 363.

Sharma D, Prabhakar H. Transcranial Doppler ultrasonography. In: Prabhakar H,
ed. _Neuromonitoring Techniques._ Cambridge, MA: Elsevier Academic Press;
2018:chap 5.

Purkayastha S, Sorond F. Transcranial Doppler ultrasound: technique and
application. _Semin Neurol._ 2012; 32(4):411-420. PMCID: 3902805
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3902805/.

## Review Date 2/12/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Stroke](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Stroke_thumb.jpg)Stroke _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

