Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007262.htm    
                                Description: Lipoproteins are molecules made of proteins and fat. They carry cholesterol and similar substances through the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lipoprotein-a

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007262.htm

# Lipoprotein-a

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Lipoproteins are molecules made of proteins and fat. They carry cholesterol
and similar substances through the blood.

A blood test can be done to measure a specific type of lipoprotein called
lipoprotein-a, or Lp(a). A high level of Lp(a) is considered a risk factor for
heart disease.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You will be asked not to eat anything for 12 hours before the test.

DO NOT smoke before the test.

## How the Test will Feel

A needle is inserted to draw blood. You may feel slight pain, or only a prick
or stinging sensation. Afterward, there may be some throbbing.

## Why the Test is Performed

High levels of lipoproteins can increase the risk for heart disease. The test
is done to check your risk for atherosclerosis, stroke, and heart attack.

It is not yet clear if this measurement leads to improved benefits for
patients. Therefore, many insurance companies DO NOT pay for it.

The American Heart Association and American College of Cardiology DO NOT
recommend the test for most adults who DO NOT have symptoms. It may be useful
for people at higher risk because of a strong family history of cardiovascular
disease.

## Normal Results

Normal values are below 30 mg/dL (milligrams per deciliter), or 1.7 mmol/L.

Note: Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk
to your doctor about the meaning of your specific test results.

The example above shows the common measurements for results of these tests.
Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Higher than normal values of Lp(a) are associated with a high risk for
atherosclerosis, stroke, and heart attack.

## Considerations

Lp(a) measurements may provide more detail about your risk for heart disease,
but the added value of this test beyond a standard lipid panel is unknown.

## Alternative Names

Lp(a)

## References

Genest J, Libby P. Lipoprotein disorders and cardiovascular disease. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 48.

Goff DC Jr, Lloyd-Jones DM, Bennett G, et al. 2013 ACC/AHA guideline on the
assessment of cardiovascular risk: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines.
_Circulation_. 2013;129(25 Suppl 2):S49-S73. PMID: 24222018
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24222018.

Semenkovich CF. Disorders of lipid metabolism. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 206.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Atherosclerosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Atherosclerosis2_thumb.jpg)Atherosclerosis
_Read more_

![Heart Attack](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartAttack_thumb.jpg)Heart
Attack _Read more_

![Stroke](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Stroke_thumb.jpg)Stroke _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

