Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003791.htm    
                                Description: A head MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) is an imaging test that uses powerful magnets and radio waves to create pictures of the brain and surrounding nerve tissues.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Head MRI

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003791.htm

# Head MRI

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A head MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) is an imaging test that uses powerful
magnets and radio waves to create pictures of the brain and surrounding nerve
tissues.

It does not use radiation.

## How the Test is Performed

Head MRI is done in the hospital or a radiology center.

You lie on a narrow table, which slides into a large tunnel-shaped scanner.

Some MRI exams require a special dye, called contrast material. The dye is
usually given during the test through a vein (IV) in your hand or forearm. The
dye helps the radiologist see certain areas more clearly.

During the MRI, the person who operates the machine watches you from another
room. The test most often lasts 30 to 60 minutes, but may take longer.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You may be asked not to eat or drink anything for 4 to 6 hours before the
scan.

Tell your health care provider if you are afraid of close spaces (have
claustrophobia). You may receive medicine to help you feel sleepy and less
anxious. Or your provider may suggest an "open" MRI, in which the machine is
not as close to the body.

You may be asked to wear a hospital gown or clothing without metal ties (such
as sweatpants and a t-shirt). Certain types of metal can cause blurry images.

Before the test, tell your provider if you have:

    * Brain aneurysm clips
    * An artificial heart valve
    * Heart defibrillator or pacemaker
    * Inner ear (cochlear) implants
    * Kidney disease or are on dialysis (you may not be able to receive contrast)
    * Recently placed artificial joint
    * A blood vessel stent
    * Worked with sheet metal in the past (you may need tests to check for metal pieces in your eyes)Â 

The MRI contains strong magnets. Metal objects are not allowed into the room
with the MRI scanner. This includes:

    * Pens, pocketknives, and eyeglasses
    * Items such as jewelry, watches, credit cards, and hearing aids
    * Pins, hairpins, metal zippers, and similar metallic items
    * Removable dental work 

## How the Test will Feel

If you need dye, you will feel the needle pinch in your arm when the dye is
injected into the vein.

An MRI exam causes no pain. If you have difficulty lying still or are very
nervous, you may be given a medicine to relax. Too much movement can blur the
images and cause errors.

The table may be hard or cold, but you can ask for a blanket or pillow. The
machine makes loud thumping and humming noises when turned on. You can ask for
ear plugs to help reduce the noise.

An intercom in the room allows you to speak to someone at any time. Some MRIs
have televisions and special headphones that can help you pass the time or
block the scanner noise.

There is no recovery time, unless you were given a medicine to relax. After an
MRI scan, you can go back to your normal diet, activity, and medicines.

## Why the Test is Performed

An MRI provides detailed pictures of the brain and nerve tissues.

A brain MRI can be used to diagnose and monitor many diseases and disorders
that affect the brain, including:

    * Birth defect
    * Bleeding (subarachnoid bleed or bleeding in the brain tissue itself)
    * Family history of aneurysms
    * Infection, such as brain abscess
    * Tumors (cancerous and noncancerous)
    * Hormonal disorders (such as acromegaly, galactorrhea, and Cushing syndrome)
    * Multiple sclerosis
    * Stroke

An MRI scan of the head can also determine the cause of:

    * Muscle weakness or numbness and tingling
    * Changes in thinking or behavior
    * Hearing loss
    * Headaches when certain other symptoms or signs are present
    * Speaking difficulties
    * Vision problems
    * Dementia

A special type of MRI called magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) may be done
to look at blood vessels in the brain.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

    * Abnormal blood vessels in the brain (arteriovenous malformations of the head)
    * Tumor of the nerve that connects the ear to the brain (acoustic neuroma)
    * Bleeding in the brain
    * Brain infection
    * Brain tissue swelling
    * Brain tumors
    * Damage to the brain from an injury
    * Fluid collecting around the brain (hydrocephalus)
    * Infection of the skull bones (osteomyelitis)
    * Loss of brain tissue
    * Multiple sclerosis
    * Stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA)
    * Structural problems in the brain 

## Risks

MRI uses no radiation. To date, no side effects from the magnetic fields and
radio waves have been reported.

The most common type of contrast (dye) used is gadolinium. It is very safe.
Allergic reactions to the substance rarely occur. However, gadolinium can be
harmful to people with kidney problems who are on dialysis. If you have kidney
problems, tell your provider before the test.

The strong magnetic fields created during an MRI can make heart pacemakers and
other implants not work as well. It can also cause a piece of metal inside
your body to move or shift.

## Considerations

MRI is used more often than CT scan. This is because it can easily find
defects in the soft tissue. Also, it is safe during pregnancy.

Tests that may be done instead of an MRI of the head include:

    * Head CT scan
    * Positron emission tomography (PET) scan of the brain 

A CT scan may be preferred in the following cases, since it is faster and
usually available right in the emergency room:

    * Acute trauma of the head and face
    * Bleeding in the brain (within the first 24 to 48 hours)
    * Early symptoms of stroke
    * Skull bone disorders and disorders involving the bones of the ear 

## Alternative Names

Nuclear magnetic resonance - cranial; Magnetic resonance imaging - cranial;
MRI of the head; MRI - cranial; NMR - cranial; Cranial MRI; Brain MRI; MRI -
brain; MRI - head

## Images

    * ![Brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1074t.jpg)Brain
    * ![Head MRI](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23268t.jpg)Head MRI
    * ![Lobes of the brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9549t.jpg)Lobes of the brain

## References

Aygun N, Zinreich SJ. Overview of diagnostic imaging of the head and neck. In:
Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 8.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) - diagnostic. In:
Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_.
6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:754-757.

Wilkinson ID, Graves MJ. Magnetic resonance imaging. In: Adam A, Dixon AK,
Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic
Radiology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone;
2015:chap 5.

## Review Date 6/25/2018

Updated by: Jason Levy, MD, Northside Radiology Associates, Atlanta, GA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Acoustic
Neuroma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AcousticNeuroma_thumb.jpg)Acoustic
Neuroma _Read more_

![Brain
Aneurysm](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainAneurysm2_thumb.jpg)Brain
Aneurysm _Read more_

![Brain Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainDiseases_thumb.jpg)Brain
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

