Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/electrocardiogram/    
                                Description: An electrocardiogram (EKG) is a test that measures electrical signals in your heart. An abnormal EKG can be a sign of heart damage or disease. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Electrocardiogram

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/electrocardiogram/

# Electrocardiogram

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is an electrocardiogram (EKG) test?

An electrocardiogram (EKG) test is a simple, painless procedure that measures
electrical signals in your heart. Each time your heart beats, an electrical
signal travels through the heart. An EKG can show if your heart is beating at
a normal rate and strength. It also helps show the size and position of your
heart's chambers. An abnormal EKG can be a sign of heart disease or damage.

Other names: ECG test

## What is it used for?

An EKG test is used to find and/or monitor various heart disorders. These
include:

    * Irregular heartbeat (known as arrhythmia)
    * Blocked arteries
    * Heart damage
    * Heart failure
    * Heart attack. EKGs are often used in the ambulance, emergency room, or other hospital room to diagnose a suspected heart attack.

An EKG test is sometimes included in a routine exam for middle-aged and older
adults, as they have a higher risk of heart disease than younger people.

## Why do I need an EKG test?

You may need an EKG test if you have symptoms of a heart disorder. These
include:

    * Chest pain
    * Rapid heartbeat
    * Arrhythmia (it may feel like your heart has skipped a beat or is fluttering)
    * Shortness of breath
    * Dizziness
    * Fatigue

You may also need this test if you:

    * Have had a heart attack or other heart problems in the past
    * Have a family history of heart disease
    * Are scheduled for surgery. Your health care provider may want to check your heart health before the procedure.
    * Have a pacemaker. The EKG can show how well the device is working.
    * Are taking medicine for heart disease. The EKG can show if your medicine is effective, or if you need to make changes in your treatment.

## What happens during an EKG test?

An EKG test may be done in a provider's office, outpatient clinic, or a
hospital. During the procedure:

    * You will lie on an exam table.
    * A health care provider will place several electrodes (small sensors that stick to the skin) on your arms, legs, and chest. The provider may need to shave or trim excess hair before placing the electrodes.
    * The electrodes are attached by wires to a computer that records your heart's electrical activity.
    * The activity will be displayed on the computer's monitor and/or printed out on paper.
    * The procedure only takes about three minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for an EKG test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having an EKG. You may feel a little discomfort
or skin irritation after the electrodes are removed. There is no risk of
electric shock. The EKG doesn't send any electricity to your body. It only
_records_ electricity.

## What do the results mean?

Your health care provider will check your EKG results for a consistent
heartbeat and rhythm. If your results were not normal, it may mean you have
one of the following disorders:

    * Arrhythmia
    * A heartbeat that is too fast or too slow
    * Inadequate blood supply to the heart
    * A bulge in the heart's walls. This bulge is known as an aneurysm.
    * Thickening of the heart's walls
    * A heart attack (Results can show if you've had a heart attack in the past or if you are having an attack during the EKG.)

If you have questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

## EKG vs ECG?

An electrocardiogram may be called an EKG or an ECG. Both are correct and
commonly used. EKG is based on the German spelling, elektrokardiogramm. EKG
may be preferred over ECG to avoid confusion with an EEG, a test that measures
brain waves.

## References

    1. American Heart Association [Internet]. Dallas (TX): American Heart Association Inc.; c2018. Electrocardiogram (ECG or EKG) [cited 2018 Nov 3]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: http://www.heart.org/en/health-topics/heart-attack/diagnosing-a-heart-attack/electrocardiogram-ecg-or-ekg
    2. Christiana Care Health System [Internet]. Wilmington (DE): Christiana Care Health System; EKG [cited 2018 Nov 3]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://christianacare.org/services/heart/cardiovascularimaging/ekg
    3. KidsHealth from Nemours [Internet]. The Nemours Foundation; c1995â2018. ECG (Electrocardiogram) [cited 2018 Nov 3]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://kidshealth.org/en/parents/ekg.html
    4. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Electrocardiogram (ECG or EKG): About; 2018 May 19 [cited 2018 Nov 3]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/ekg/about/pac-20384983
    5. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2018. Electrocardiography (ECG; EKG) [cited 2018 Nov 3]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/heart-and-blood-vessel-disorders/diagnosis-of-heart-and-blood-vessel-disorders/electrocardiography
    6. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Electrocardiogram [cited 2018 Nov 3]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/electrocardiogram
    7. Seconds Count [Internet]. Washington D.C.: The Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions; Diagnosing a Heart Attack; 2014 Nov 4 [cited 2018 Nov 15]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://www.secondscount.org/heart-condition-centers/info-detail-2/diagnosing-heart-attack
    8. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2018. Electrocardiogram: Overview [updated 2018 Nov 2; cited 2018 Nov 3]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/electrocardiogram
    9. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: Electrocardiogram [cited 2018 Nov 3]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=92&contentid=P07970
    10. UPMC Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh [Internet]. Pittsburgh: UPMC; c2018. Electrocardiogram (EKG or ECG) [cited 2018 Nov 3]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: http://www.chp.edu/our-services/heart/patient-procedures/ekg

## Related Health Topics

    * Arrhythmia
    * Heart Attack
    * Heart Diseases
    * Heart Failure
    * Pacemakers and Implantable Defibrillators

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Stress Tests

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

