Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001421.htm    
                                Description: Brain herniation is the shifting of the brain tissue from one space in the brain to another through various folds and openings.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Brain herniation

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001421.htm

# Brain herniation

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Brain herniation is the shifting of the brain tissue from one space in the
brain to another through various folds and openings.

## Causes

Brain herniation occurs when something inside the skull produces pressure that
moves brain tissues. This is most often the result of brain swelling or
bleeding from a head injury, stroke, or brain tumor.

Brain herniation can be a side effect of tumors in the brain, including:

    * Metastatic brain tumor
    * Primary brain tumor

Herniation of the brain can also be caused by other factors that lead to
increased pressure inside the skull, including:

    * Collection of pus and other material in the brain, usually from a bacterial or fungal infection (abscess)
    * Bleeding in the brain (hemorrhage)
    * Buildup of fluid inside the skull that leads to brain swelling (hydrocephalus)
    * Strokes that cause brain swelling
    * Swelling after radiation therapy
    * Defect in brain structure, such as a condition called Chiari malformation 

Brain herniation can occur:

    * From side to side or down, under, or across rigid membrane like the tentorium or falx
    * Through a natural bony opening at the base of the skull called the foramen magnum
    * Through openings created during brain surgery 

## Symptoms

Signs and symptoms may include:

    * High blood pressure
    * Irregular or slow pulse
    * Severe headache
    * Weakness
    * Cardiac arrest (no pulse)
    * Loss of consciousness, coma
    * Loss of all brainstem reflexes (blinking, gagging, and pupils reacting to light)
    * Respiratory arrest (no breathing)
    * Wide (dilated) pupils and no movement in one or both eyes 

## Exams and Tests

A brain and nervous system exam shows changes in alertness. Depending on the
severity of the herniation and the part of the brain that is being pressed on,
there will be problems with one or more brain-related reflexes and nerve
functions.

Tests may include:

    * X-ray of the skull and neck
    * CT scan of the head
    * MRI scan of the head
    * Blood tests if an abscess or a bleeding disorder is suspected 

## Treatment

Brain herniation is a medical emergency. The goal of treatment is to save the
person's life.

To help reverse or prevent a brain herniation, the medical team will treat
increased swelling and pressure in the brain. Treatment may involve:

    * Placing a drain into the brain to help remove cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)
    * Medicines to reduce swelling, especially if there is a brain tumor
    * Medicines that decrease brain swelling, such as mannitol, saline, or other diuretics
    * Placing a tube in the airway (endotracheal intubation) and increasing the breathing rate to reduce the levels of carbon dioxide (CO2) in the blood
    * Removing blood or blood clots if they are raising pressure inside the skull and causing herniation
    * Removing part of the skull to give the brain more room 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People who have a brain herniation have a serious brain injury. They may
already have a low chance of recovery due to the injury that caused the
herniation. When herniation occurs, it further lowers the chance of recovery.

The outlook varies depending on where in the brain the herniation occurs.
Without treatment, death is likely.

There can be damage to parts of the brain that control breathing and blood
flow. This can rapidly lead to death or brain death.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Brain death
    * Permanent and significant neurologic problems 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your local emergency number (such as 911) or take the person to a
hospital emergency room if they develop decreased alertness or other symptoms,
especially if there has been a head injury or if the person has a brain tumor
or blood vessel problem.

## Prevention

Prompt treatment of increased intracranial pressure and related disorders may
reduce the risk for brain herniation.

## Alternative Names

Herniation syndrome; Transtentorial herniation; Uncal herniation; Subfalcine
herniation; Tonsillar herniation; Herniation - brain

## Patient Instructions

    * Brain injury - discharge 

## Images

    * ![Brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1074t.jpg)Brain
    * ![Brain hernia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9547t.jpg)Brain hernia

## References

Beaumont A. Physiology of the cerebrospinal fluid and intracranial pressure.
In: Winn HR, ed. _Youmans and Winn Neurological Surgery._ 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 52.

Papa L, Goldberg SA. Head trauma. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice._ 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 34.

Stippler M. Craniocerebral trauma. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC,
Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 62

## Review Date 7/9/2018

Updated by: Luc Jasmin, MD, PhD, FRCS (C), FACS, Department of Surgery,
Holston Valley Medical Center, TN; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery at
UCSF, San Francisco, CA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Antibiotics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AntibioticsAndAbscess_thumb.jpg)Abscess
_Read more_

![Brain Tumors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainTumors_thumb.jpg)Brain
Tumors _Read more_

![Hydrocephalus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hydrocephalus_thumb.jpg)Hydrocephalus
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

