Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000726.htm    
                                Description: A stroke occurs when blood flow to a part of the brain stops. A stroke is sometimes called a &quot;brain attack.&quot;     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Stroke

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000726.htm

# Stroke

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A stroke occurs when blood flow to a part of the brain stops. A stroke is
sometimes called a "brain attack."

If blood flow is cut off for longer than a few seconds, the brain cannot get
nutrients and oxygen. Brain cells can die, causing lasting damage.

## Causes

There are two major types of stroke:

    * Ischemic stroke
    * Hemorrhagic stroke 

Ischemic stroke occurs when a blood vessel that supplies blood to the brain is
blocked by a blood clot. This may happen in two ways:

    * A clot may form in an artery that is already very narrow. This is called a **thrombotic stroke**.
    * A clot may break off from another place in the blood vessels of the brain, or from some other part of the body, and travel up to the brain. This is called cerebral embolism, or an **embolic stroke**. 

Ischemic strokes may also be caused by a sticky substance called plaque that
can clog arteries.

![Stroke](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200071t.gif)Watch this
video about:Stroke

![Stroke - secondary to cardiogenic
embolism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200072t.gif)Watch this
video about:Stroke - secondary to cardiogenic embolism

A hemorrhagic stroke occurs when a blood vessel in part of the brain becomes
weak and bursts open. This causes blood to leak into the brain. Some people
have defects in the blood vessels of the brain that make this more likely.
These defects may include:

    * Aneurysm (weak area in the wall of a blood vessel that causes the blood vessel to bulge or balloon out)
    * Arteriovenous malformation (AVM; abnormal connection between the arteries and veins)
    * Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA; condition in which proteins called amyloid build up on the walls of the arteries in the brain) 

Hemorrhagic strokes may also occur when someone is taking blood thinners, such
as warfarin (Coumadin). Very high blood pressure may cause blood vessels to
burst, leading to hemorrhagic stroke.

An ischemic stroke can develop bleeding and become a hemorrhagic stroke.

High blood pressure is the main risk factor for strokes. Other major risk
factors are:

    * Irregular heartbeat, called atrial fibrillation
    * Diabetes
    * Family history of stroke
    * Being male
    * High cholesterol
    * Increasing age, especially after age 55
    * Ethnicity (African Americans are more likely to die of a stroke)
    * Obesity
    * History of prior stroke or transient ischemic attack (occurs when blood flow to a part of the brain stops for a brief time) 

![Hypertension -
overview](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200060t.gif)Watch this
video about:Hypertension - overview

Stroke risk is also higher in:

    * People who have heart disease or poor blood flow in their legs caused by narrowed arteries
    * People who have unhealthy lifestyle habits such as smoking, excessive use of alcohol, use recreational drugs, a high-fat diet, and lack of exercise
    * Women who take birth control pills (especially those who smoke and are older than 35)
    * Women who are pregnant have an increased risk while pregnant
    * Women who take hormone replacement therapy 

## Symptoms

Symptoms of stroke depend on which part of the brain is damaged. In some
cases, a person may not know that a stroke has occurred.

Most of the time, symptoms develop suddenly and without warning. But symptoms
may occur on and off for the first day or two. Symptoms are usually most
severe when the stroke first happens, but they may slowly get worse.

![Cerebellum -
function](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18008.jpg)

A headache may occur if the stroke is caused by bleeding in the brain. The
headache:

    * Starts suddenly and may be severe
    * May be worse when you are lying flat
    * Wakes you up from sleep
    * Gets worse when you change positions or when you bend, strain, or cough 
![Brainstem function](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18007.jpg)

Other symptoms depend on how severe the stroke is, and what part of the brain
is affected. Symptoms may include:

    * Change in alertness (including sleepiness, unconsciousness, and coma)
    * Changes in hearing or taste
    * Changes that affect touch and the ability to feel pain, pressure, or different temperatures
    * Confusion or loss of memory
    * Problems swallowing
    * Problems writing or reading
    * Dizziness or abnormal feeling of movement (vertigo)
    * Eyesight problems, such as decreased vision, double vision, or total loss of vision
    * Lack of control over the bladder or bowels
    * Loss of balance or coordination, or trouble walking
    * Muscle weakness in the face, arm, or leg (usually just on one side)
    * Numbness or tingling on one side of the body
    * Personality, mood, or emotional changes
    * Trouble speaking or understanding others who are speaking 

## Exams and Tests

The doctor will do a physical exam to:

    * Check for problems with vision, movement, feeling, reflexes, understanding, and speaking. Your doctor and nurses will repeat this exam over time to see if your stroke is getting worse or improving.
    * Listen to the carotid arteries in the neck with a stethoscope for an abnormal sound, called a bruit, which is caused by abnormal blood flow.
    * Check for high blood pressure. 
![Carotid stenosis - X-ray of the left
artery](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1152.jpg)

You may have the following tests to help find the type, location, and cause of
the stroke and rule out other problems:

    * CT scan of the brain to determine if there is any bleeding
    * MRI of the brain to determine the location of the stroke
    * Angiogram of the head to look for a blood vessel that is blocked or bleeding
    * Carotid duplex (ultrasound) to see if the carotid arteries in your neck have narrowed
    * Echocardiogram to see if the stroke could have been caused by a blood clot from the heart
    * Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) or CT angiography to check for abnormal blood vessels in the brain 

Other tests include:

    * Blood tests
    * Electroencephalogram (EEG) to determine if there are seizures
    * Electrocardiogram (ECG) and heart rhythm monitoring

## Treatment

A stroke is a medical emergency. Quick treatment is needed. Call 911 or your
local emergency number right away or seek urgent medical care at the first
signs of a stroke.

People who are having stroke symptoms need to get to a hospital as quickly as
possible.

    * If the stroke is caused by a blood clot, a clot-busting drug may be given to dissolve the clot.
    * To be effective, this treatment must be started within 3 to 4 1/2 hours of when the symptoms first started. The sooner this treatment is started, the better the chance of a good outcome. 

Other treatments given in the hospital depend on the cause of the stroke.
These may include:

    * Blood thinners such as heparin, warfarin (Coumadin), aspirin, or clopidogrel (Plavix)
    * Medicine to control risk factors, such as high blood pressure, diabetes, and high cholesterol
    * Special procedures or surgery to relieve symptoms or prevent more strokes
    * Nutrients and fluids 

Physical therapy, occupational therapy, speech therapy, and swallowing therapy
will all begin in the hospital. If the person has severe swallowing problems,
a feeding tube in the stomach (gastrostomy tube) will likely be needed.

The goal of treatment after a stroke is to help you recover as much function
as possible and prevent future strokes.

Recovery from your stroke will begin while you are still in the hospital or at
a rehabilitation center. It will continue when you go home from the hospital
or center. Be sure to follow up with your health care provider after you go
home.

## Support Groups

Support and resources are available from the American Stroke Association --
www.strokeassociation.org.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does after a stroke depends on:

    * The type of stroke
    * How much brain tissue is damaged
    * What body functions have been affected
    * How quickly treatment is given 

Problems moving, thinking, and talking often improve in the weeks to months
after a stroke.

Many people who have had a stroke will keep improving in the months or years
after their stroke.

Over half of people who have a stroke are able to function and live at home.
Others are not able to care for themselves.

If treatment with clot-busting drugs is successful, the symptoms of a stroke
may go away. However, people often do not get to the hospital soon enough to
receive these drugs, or they cannot take these drugs because of a health
condition.

People who have a stroke from a blood clot (ischemic stroke) have a better
chance of surviving than those who have a stroke from bleeding in the brain
(hemorrhagic stroke).

The risk for a second stroke is highest during the weeks or months after the
first stroke. The risk begins to decrease after this period.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Stroke is a medical emergency that needs to be treated right away. The acronym
F.A.S.T. is an easy way to remember signs of stroke and what to do if you
think a stroke has occurred. The most important action to take is to call 911
right away for emergency assistance.

F.A.S.T. stands for:

    * FACE. Ask the person to smile. Check if one side of the face droops.
    * ARMS. Ask the person to raise both arms. See if one arm drifts downward.
    * SPEECH. Ask the person to repeat a simple sentence. Check if words are slurred and if the sentence is repeated correctly.
    * TIME. If a person shows any of these symptoms, time is essential. It is important to get to the hospital as quickly as possible. Call 911. Act F.A.S.T. 

## Prevention

Reducing your stroke risk factors lessens your chance of having a stroke.

## Alternative Names

Cerebrovascular disease; CVA; Cerebral infarction; Cerebral hemorrhage;
Ischemic stroke; Stroke - ischemic; Cerebrovascular accident; Stroke -
hemorrhagic; Carotid artery - stroke

## Patient Instructions

    * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery - discharge 
    * Being active when you have heart disease
    * Brain aneurysm repair - discharge
    * Butter, margarine, and cooking oils
    * Caring for muscle spasticity or spasms 
    * Carotid artery surgery - discharge
    * Communicating with someone with aphasia
    * Communicating with someone with dysarthria
    * Constipation - self-care
    * Dementia and driving
    * Dementia - behavior and sleep problems
    * Dementia - daily care
    * Dementia - keeping safe in the home
    * Dementia - what to ask your doctor 
    * Eating extra calories when sick - adults
    * Headache - what to ask your doctor 
    * High blood pressure - what to ask your doctor 
    * Preventing falls
    * Stroke - discharge 
    * Swallowing problems 

## Images

    * ![Brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1074t.jpg)Brain
    * ![Carotid stenosis - X-ray of the left artery](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1152t.jpg)Carotid stenosis - X-ray of the left artery
    * ![Carotid stenosis - X-ray of the right artery](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1153t.jpg)Carotid stenosis - X-ray of the right artery
    * ![Stroke](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17133t.jpg)Stroke
    * ![Brainstem function](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18007t.jpg)Brainstem function
    * ![Cerebellum - function](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18008t.jpg)Cerebellum - function
    * ![Circle of Willis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18009t.jpg)Circle of Willis
    * ![Left cerebral hemisphere - function](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18010t.jpg)Left cerebral hemisphere - function
    * ![Right cerebral hemisphere - function](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18011t.jpg)Right cerebral hemisphere - function
    * ![Endarterectomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18059t.jpg)Endarterectomy
    * ![Plaque buildup in arteries](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19314t.jpg)Plaque buildup in arteries
    * ![Stroke - Series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19695t.jpg)Stroke - series
    * ![Carotid dissection](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18124t.jpg)Carotid dissection

## References

Biller J, Ruland S, Schneck MJ. Ischemic cerebrovascular disease. In Daroff
RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice._ 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 65.

Crocco TJ, Meurer WJ. Stroke. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice._ 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 91.

January CT, Wann LS, Alpert JS, et al. 2014 AHA/ACC/HRS guideline for the
management of patients with atrial fibrillation: a report of the American
College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on practice
guidelines and the Heart Rhythm Society. _Circulation._
2014;130(23):2071-2104. PMID: 24682348 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24682348.

January CT, Wann LS, Calkins H, et al. 2019 AHA/ACC/HRS focused updated of the
2014 AHA/ACC/HRS guideline for the management of patients with atrial
fibrillation: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart
Association Task Force on practice guidelines and the Heart Rhythm Society. _J
AM Coll Cardiol._ 2019 Jan 21. pii: S0735-1097(19)30209-8. PMID: 30703431
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30703431.

Meschia JF, Bushnell C, Boden-Albala B, et al. Guidelines for the primary
prevention of stroke: a statement for healthcare professionals from the
American Heart Association/American Stroke Association. _Stroke._
2014;45(12):3754-3832. PMID: 25355838 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25355838.

Powers WJ, Derdeyn CP, Biller J, et al. 2015 American Heart
Association/American Stroke Association focused update of the 2013 guidelines
for the early management of patients with acute ischemic stroke regarding
endovascular treatment: a guideline for healthcare professionals from the
American Heart Association/American Stroke Association. _Stroke._
2015;46(10):3020-3035. PMID: 26123479 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26123479.

Powers WJ, Rabinstein AA, Ackerson T, et al; American Heart Association Stroke
Council. 2018 guidelines for the early management of patients with acute
ischemic stroke: a guideline for healthcare professionals from the American
Heart Association/American Stroke Association. _Stroke._ 2018;49(3):e46-e110.
PMID: 29367334 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29367334.

Riegel B, Moser DK, Buck HG, et al; American Heart Association Council on
Cardiovascular and Stroke Nursing; Council on Peripheral Vascular Disease; and
Council on Quality of Care and Outcomes Research. Self-care for the prevention
and management of cardiovascular disease and stroke: a scientific statement
for healthcare professionals from the American Heart Association. _J Am Heart
Assoc._ 2017;6(9). pii: e006997. PMID: 28860232
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28860232.

Whelton PK, Carey RM, Aronow WS, et al. 2017
ACC/AHA/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/AGS/APhA/ASH/ASPC/NMA/PCNA Guideline for the prevention,
detection, evaluation, and management of high blood pressure in adults: a
report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task
Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol._
2018;71(19):e127-e248. PMID: 29146535 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29146535.

Winstein CJ, Stein J, Arena R, et al. Guidelines for adult stroke
rehabilitation and recovery: a guideline for healthcare professionals from the
American Heart Association/American Stroke Association. _Stroke._
2016;47(6):e98-e169. PMID: 27145936 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27145936.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Internal review and
update on 04/15/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Stroke](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Stroke_thumb.jpg)Stroke _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

