Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001423.htm    
                                Description: Vertebrobasilar circulatory disorders are conditions in which blood supply to the back of the brain is disrupted.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vertebrobasilar circulatory disorders

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001423.htm

# Vertebrobasilar circulatory disorders

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Vertebrobasilar circulatory disorders are conditions in which blood supply to
the back of the brain is disrupted.

## Causes

Two vertebral arteries join to form the basilar artery. These are the main
blood vessels that provide blood flow to the back of the brain.

The areas in the back of the brain that receive blood from these arteries are
needed to keep a person alive. These areas control breathing, heart rate,
swallowing, vision, movement, and posture or balance. All of the nervous
system signals that connect the brain to the rest of the body pass through the
back of the brain.

Many different conditions may reduce or stop blood flow in the back part of
the brain. The most common risk factors are smoking, high blood pressure,
diabetes, and a high cholesterol level. These are similar to the risk factors
for any stroke.

Other causes include:

    * Tear in the wall of an artery
    * Blood clots in the heart that travel to the vertebrobasilar arteries and cause a stroke
    * Blood vessel inflammation
    * Connective tissue diseases
    * Problems in the spinal bones of the neck
    * Outside pressure on the vertebrobasilar arteries, such as from a salon sink (nicknamed beauty parlor syndrome)

## Symptoms

Common symptoms may include:

    * Difficulty pronouncing words, slurred speech
    * Difficulty swallowing
    * Double vision or vision loss
    * Numbness or tingling, most often on the face or scalp
    * Sudden falls (drop attacks)
    * Vertigo (sensation of things spinning around)
    * Memory loss 

Other symptoms may include:

    * Bladder or bowel control problems
    * Difficulty walking (unsteady gait)
    * Headache, neck ache
    * Hearing loss
    * Muscle weakness
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Pain in one or more parts of the body, which gets worse with touch and cold temperatures
    * Poor coordination
    * Sleepiness or sleep from which the person cannot be awakened
    * Sudden, uncoordinated movements
    * Sweating on the face, arms, or legs 

## Exams and Tests

You may have the following tests, depending on the cause:

    * CT or MRI of the brain
    * Computed tomography angiography (CTA), magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), or ultrasound to look at blood vessels in the brain
    * Blood tests, including blood clotting studies
    * Echocardiogram
    * Electrocardiogram (ECG) and Holter monitor (24-hour ECG)
    * X-rays of the arteries (angiogram) 

## Treatment

Vertebrobasilar symptoms that start suddenly are a medical emergency that need
to be treated right away. Treatment is similar to that for stroke.

To treat and prevent the condition, your health care provider may recommend:

    * Taking blood-thinning drugs, such as aspirin, warfarin (Coumadin), or clopidogrel (Plavix) to lower the risk for stroke
    * Changing your diet
    * Medicine to lower cholesterol and better control blood pressure
    * Exercising
    * Losing weight
    * Stopping smoking 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook depends on:

    * The amount of brain damage
    * What body functions have been affected
    * How quickly you get treatment
    * How quickly you recover 

Each person has a different recovery time and need for long-term care.
Problems with moving, thinking, and talking often improve in the first weeks
or months. Some people will keep improving for months or years.

## Possible Complications

Complications of vertebrobasilar circulatory disorders are stroke and its
complications. These include:

    * Breathing (respiratory) failure (which may require the use of a machine to help the person breathe)
    * Lung problems (especially lung infections)
    * Heart attack
    * Lack of fluids in the body (dehydration) and swallowing problems (sometimes requiring tube feeding)
    * Problems with movement or sensation, including paralysis and numbness
    * Formation of clots in the legs
    * Vision loss 

Complications caused by medicines or surgery may also occur.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call 911 or your local emergency number, or get to the emergency room if you
have any symptoms of a vertebrobasilar circulatory disorder.

## Alternative Names

Vertebrobasilar insufficiency; Posterior circulation ischemia; Beauty parlor
syndrome; TIA - vertebrobasilar insufficiency; Dizziness - vertebrobasilar
insufficiency; Vertigo - vertebrobasilar insufficiency

## Images

    * ![Arteries of the brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9441t.jpg)Arteries of the brain

## References

Correia PN, Meyer IA, Eskandari A, Michel P. Beauty parlor stroke revisited:
an 11-year single-center consecutive series. _Int J Stroke_.
2016;11(3):356-360. PMID: 26763920 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26763920.

Kernan WN, Ovbiagele B, Black HR, et al. Guidelines for the prevention of
stroke in patients with stroke and transient ischemic attack: a guideline for
healthcare professionals from the American Heart Association/American Stroke
Association. _Stroke_. 2014;45(7):2160-2236. PMID: 24788967
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24788967.

Kim JS, Caplan LR. Vertebrobasilar disease. In: Grotta JC, Albers GW,
Broderick JP, et al, eds. _Stroke: Pathophysiology, Diagnosis, and
Management_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 26.

## Review Date 7/29/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, FAAN, Attending Neurologist and
Assistant Professor of Clinical Neurology, Stony Brook University School of
Medicine, Stony Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Stroke](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Stroke_thumb.jpg)Stroke _Read more_

![Transient Ischemic
Attack](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TransientIschemicAttack_thumb.jpg)Transient
Ischemic Attack _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

