Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003093.htm    
                                Description: Dizziness is a term that is often used to describe 2 different symptoms: lightheadedness and vertigo.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dizziness

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003093.htm

# Dizziness

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Dizziness is a term that is often used to describe 2 different symptoms:
lightheadedness and vertigo.

Lightheadedness is a feeling that you might faint.

Vertigo is a feeling that you are spinning or moving, or that the world is
spinning around you. Vertigo-associated disorders is a related topic.

## Considerations

Most causes of dizziness are not serious, and they either quickly get better
on their own or are easy to treat.

## Causes

Lightheadedness occurs when your brain does not get enough blood. This may
occur if:

    * You have a sudden drop in blood pressure.
    * Your body does not have enough water (is dehydrated) because of vomiting, diarrhea, fever, and other conditions.
    * You get up too quickly after sitting or lying down (this is more common in older people). 

Lightheadedness may also occur if you have the flu, low blood sugar, a cold,
or allergies.

More serious conditions that can lead to lightheadedness include:

    * Heart problems, such as a heart attack or abnormal heart beat
    * Stroke
    * Bleeding inside the body
    * Shock (extreme drop in blood pressure) 

If any of these serious disorders are present, you will usually also have
symptoms like chest pain, a feeling of a racing heart, loss of speech, change
in vision, or other symptoms.

Vertigo may be due to:

    * Benign positional vertigo, a spinning feeling that occurs when you move your head
    * Labyrinthitis, a viral infection of the inner ear that usually follows a cold or flu
    * Meniere disease, a common inner ear problem 

Other causes of lightheadedness or vertigo may include:

    * Use of certain medicines
    * Stroke
    * Multiple sclerosis
    * Seizures
    * Brain tumor
    * Bleeding in the brain 

## Home Care

If you tend to get lightheaded when you stand up:

    * Avoid sudden changes in posture.
    * Get up from a lying position slowly, and stay seated for a few moments before standing.
    * When standing, make sure you have something to hold on to. 

If you have vertigo, the following tips can help prevent your symptoms from
becoming worse:

    * Keep still and rest when symptoms occur.
    * Avoid sudden movements or position changes.
    * Slowly increase activity.
    * You may need a cane or other help walking when you have a loss of balance during a vertigo attack.
    * Avoid bright lights, TV, and reading during vertigo attacks because they may make symptoms worse. 

Avoid activities such as driving, operating heavy machinery, and climbing
until 1 week after your symptoms disappear. A sudden dizzy spell during these
activities can be dangerous.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your local emergency number (such as 911) or go to an emergency room if
you are dizzy and have:

    * A head injury
    * Fever over 101Â°F (38.3Â°C), headache, or very stiff neck
    * Seizures
    * Trouble keeping fluids down
    * Chest pain
    * Irregular heart rate (heart is skipping beats)
    * Shortness of breath
    * Weakness
    * Inability to move an arm or leg
    * Change in vision or speech
    * Fainting and loss of alertness for more than a few minutes 

Call your health care provider for an appointment if you have:

    * Dizziness for the first time
    * New or worsening symptoms
    * Dizziness after taking medicine
    * Hearing loss 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions about your
medical history and symptoms, including:

    * When did your dizziness begin?
    * Does your dizziness occur when you move?
    * What other symptoms occur when you feel dizzy?
    * Are you always dizzy or does the dizziness come and go?
    * How long does the dizziness last?
    * Were you sick with a cold, flu, or other illness before the dizziness began?
    * Do you have a lot of stress or anxiety? 

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood pressure reading
    * Electrocardiogram (ECG)
    * Hearing tests
    * Balance testing (ENG)
    * Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) 

Your provider may prescribe medicines to help you feel better, including:

    * Antihistamines
    * Sedatives
    * Anti-nausea medicine 

Surgery may be needed if you have Meniere disease.

## Alternative Names

Lightheadedness - dizzy; Loss of balance; Vertigo

## Images

    * ![Carotid stenosis - X-ray of the left artery](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1152t.jpg)Carotid stenosis - X-ray of the left artery
    * ![Carotid stenosis - X-ray of the right artery](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1153t.jpg)Carotid stenosis - X-ray of the right artery
    * ![Vertigo](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19706t.jpg)Vertigo
    * ![Balance receptors](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19707t.jpg)Balance receptors

## References

Baloh RW, Jen JC. Hearing and equilibrium. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 428.

Chang AK. Dizziness and vertigo. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 16.

Kerber KA. Dizziness and vertigo. In: Benjamin IJ, Griggs RC, Wing EJ, Fitz
JG, eds. _Andreoli and Carpenter's Cecil Essentials of Medicine_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 113.

Muncie HL, Sirmans SM, James E. Dizziness: approach to evaluation and
management. _Am Fam Physician_. 2017;95(3):154-162. PMID: 28145669
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28145669.

## Review Date 5/13/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Balance
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BalanceProblems_thumb.jpg)Balance
Problems _Read more_

![Dizziness and
Vertigo](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dizziness_thumb.jpg)Dizziness and
Vertigo _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

