Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001432.htm    
                                Description: Vertigo is a sensation of motion or spinning that is often described as dizziness.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vertigo-associated disorders

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001432.htm

# Vertigo-associated disorders

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Vertigo is a sensation of motion or spinning that is often described as
dizziness.

Vertigo is not the same as being lightheaded. People with vertigo feel as
though they are actually spinning or moving, or that the world is spinning
around them.

## Causes

There are two types of vertigo, peripheral and central vertigo.

Peripheral vertigo is due to a problem in the part of the inner ear that
controls balance. These areas are called the vestibular labyrinth, or
semicircular canals. The problem may also involve the vestibular nerve. This
is the nerve between the inner earÂ and the brain stem.

Peripheral vertigo may be caused by:

    * Benign positional vertigo (benign paroxysmal positional vertigo)
    * Certain medicines, such as aminoglycoside antibiotics, cisplatin, diuretics, or salicylates
    * Injury (such as head injury)
    * Inflammation of the vestibular nerve (neuronitis)
    * Irritation and swelling of the inner ear (labyrinthitis)
    * Meniere disease
    * Pressure on the vestibular nerve, usually from a noncancerous tumor such as a meningioma or schwannoma

Central vertigo is due to a problem in the brain, usually in the brain stem or
the back part of the brain (cerebellum).

Central vertigo may be caused by:

    * Blood vessel disease
    * Certain drugs, such as anticonvulsants, aspirin, and alcohol
    * Multiple sclerosis
    * Seizures (rarely)
    * Stroke
    * Tumors (cancerous or noncancerous)
    * Vestibular migraine, a type of migraine headache

## Symptoms

The main symptom is a sensation that you or the room is moving or spinning.
The spinning sensation may cause nausea and vomiting.

Â Depending on the cause, other symptoms can include:

    * ProblemÂ focusing the eyes
    * Dizziness
    * Hearing loss in one ear
    * Loss of balance (may cause falls)
    * Ringing in the ears 

If you have vertigo due to problems in the brain (central vertigo), you may
have other symptoms, including:

    * Difficulty swallowing
    * Double vision
    * Eye movement problems
    * Facial paralysis
    * Slurred speech
    * Weakness of the limbs 

## Exams and Tests

Examination by theÂ health care providerÂ may show:

    * ProblemsÂ walking due to loss of balance
    * Eye movement problems or involuntary eye movements (nystagmus)
    * Hearing loss
    * Lack of coordination and balance
    * Weakness 

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood tests
    * Brain stem auditory evoked potential studies
    * Caloric stimulation
    * Electroencephalogram (EEG)
    * Electronystagmography
    * Head CT
    * Lumbar puncture
    * MRI scan of head and MRA scan of blood vessels of the brain
    * Walking (gait) testing

The provider may perform certain head movements on you, such as the head-
thrust test. These tests help tell the difference between central and
peripheral vertigo.

## Treatment

The cause of any brain disorder causing vertigo should be identified and
treated when possible.

To help resolve symptoms of benign positional vertigo, the provider may
perform the Epley maneuver on you. This involves placing your head in
different positions to help reset the balance organ.

You may be prescribed medicines to treat symptoms of peripheral vertigo, such
as nausea and vomiting.

Physical therapy may help improve balance problems. You'll be taught exercises
to restore your sense of balance. Exercises can also strengthen your muscles
to help prevent falls.

To prevent worsening of symptoms during an episode of vertigo, try the
following:

    * Keep still. Sit or lie down when symptoms occur.
    * Gradually resume activity.
    * Avoid sudden position changes.
    * Do not try to read when symptoms occur.
    * Avoid bright lights.

You may need help walking when symptoms occur. Avoid hazardous activities such
as driving, operating heavy machinery, and climbing until 1 week after
symptoms have disappeared.

Other treatment depends on the cause of the vertigo. Surgery, including
microvascular decompression, may be suggested in some cases.

## Possible Complications

VertigoÂ can interfere with driving, work, and lifestyle. It can also cause
falls, which can lead to many injuries, including hip fractures.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if you have vertigo that does not
go away or interferes with your daily activities. If you have never had
vertigo or if you have vertigo with other symptoms (such as double vision,
slurred speech, or loss of coordination), call 911.

## Alternative Names

Peripheral vertigo; Central vertigo; Dizziness; Benign positional vertigo;
Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo

## Images

    * ![Tympanic membrane](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8993t.jpg)Tympanic membrane
    * ![Cerebellum - function](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18008t.jpg)Cerebellum - function
    * ![Ear anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1092t.jpg)Ear anatomy

## References

Bhattacharyya N, Gubbels SP, Schwartz SR, et al. Clinical practice guideline:
benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (update). _Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg_.
2017;156(3_suppl):S1-S47.Â PMID: 28248609
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28248609.

Chang AK. Dizziness and vertigo. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 16.

Crane BT, Minor LB. Peripheral vestibular disorders. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH,
Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery._ 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 165.

Kerber KA, Baloh RW. Neuro-otology: diagnosis and management of neuro-
otoligical disorders. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL,
eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice._ 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 46.

## Review Date 11/22/2017

Updated by: Luc Jasmin, MD, PhD, FRCS (C), FACS, Department of Surgery at
Providence Medical Center, Medford, OR; Department of Surgery at Ashland
Community Hospital, Ashland, OR; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery at UCSF,
San Francisco, CA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update 09/28/2018.

![Balance
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BalanceProblems_thumb.jpg)Balance
Problems _Read more_

![Dizziness and
Vertigo](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dizziness_thumb.jpg)Dizziness and
Vertigo _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

